The Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (LASAA) has commenced the first phase of an awareness campaign to sensitise members of the public on the need for compliance with regulations guiding outdoor advertisement in the state. A statement explained that the regulations cover on-premise and off-premise signage displays as well as registration of mobile adverts.
Speaking during one of the agency’s awareness campaign in Lagos, Managing Director of LASAA, Prince Adedamola Docemo, said it was important to sensitise members of the public on the need to comply with the LASAA law before the agency begins enforcement.
He noted that the exercise would provide another opportunity for LASAA to remind clients on the importance of always being on the side of the law as good individual and corporate citizens. He urged Lagosians to cooperate with LASAA so that the state government can successfully deliver the dividends of democracy to them through its revenue optimisation effort.
Also speaking, the Deputy General Manager, Corporate Communication and Strategy of LASAA, Mr. Temitope Akande, noted that the agency has a tradition of embarking on an awareness campaign to clients and the public in general in February and March every year.
The campaign will focus on the need for clients to be on the side of the law as enforcement would commence afterwards, he said.
“Our plan is to utilise all available medium of communication to sensitise the public on the need to register their advertising business signboards, temporary campaigns, road shows and billboards as well as branded vehicles to avoid falling foul of the enforcement drive that will follow this awareness exercise. We plan to engage our clients across all platforms to achieve our objective,” Akande said. The Head of Mobile, Small Format and Temporary (MS&T) Department, Mr. Adebayo Aluko, said the purpose of the awareness programme is to ensure that at least 95 per cent compliance is achieved for all branded vehicles operating in Lagos State and also boost the revenue of the agency vis a vis that of the state. “Hopefully, the enforcement on branded vehicles without the 2021 mobile advert permit within the state will be minimal,” Aluko said.
Explaining that branded vehicles without valid permits are usually grounded or impounded and made to pay the amount due before the vehicle is released, Aluko appealed to owners of branded vehicles to follow due process in good time and avoid enforcement and sanctions.
“For under declaration, vehicle owners are also sanctioned appropriately and issued a fine in line with the agency’s policy and for clients who comply on time and are truthful and sincere with the number of branded vehicles they have, the agency gives an incentive in the form of a discount,” he added.