The timely exodus of several notable political figures in Nigeria from their various parties to the All Progressives Congress (APC) has caused some sensation around many quarters. Optimists theorise that all the good heads inside one hat are good; pessimists suggest otherwise; opportunists find this a new justification for rapid decision-making, but realists can see that things are about to get very complicated. The migration trend has not affected Ogun State much, but the reappearance of old foxes is guaranteed to stir up the relative quiet. The suppositions and suspicions come to a head with the old proverb: how many master cooks would it take to ruin the broth? Joining Governor Dapo Abiodun on the APC public pedestal is none other than his immediate predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, joined by his immediate predecessor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel (OGD), who is also joined by his immediate predecessor, Chief Olusegun Osoba. In other words, four successive generations of Ogun governors on the APC’s tribune, raising the hairs of experienced folks. The amalgamation of the lot makes for exciting conversations and political calculations. Governor Abiodun and OGD are close friends, as the latter aided the former’s ascension to the gubernatorial chair. So there’s likely negligible tension and suspense on that front. Between OGD and his immediate successor, Senator Amosun, is a thick history book of alleged contention. Although this was resolved recently, folks are likely to recall the seemingly endless news pages detailing the lengths the Senator had gone to suppress OGD. But “the past is a different country…” so there’s probably nothing hazardous on that front either. Chief Osoba is the figurative godfather of them all, the first in the line and the only one who successfully made a comeback (after a short hiatus of six years, between his first tenure, 1992 to 1993, and his second, 1999 to 2003). The man has the ears of fellow political ancestors, within and outside the APC. With these very experienced figures at the forefront of Ogun State APC, folks are deriving all possible outcomes. Will the ship stay afloat or even rise above the tides, or will its many captains capsize it? Time will tell.