By Kingsley Nwezeh Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) zonal offices in Enugu and Benin yesterday arrested 40 suspected internet fraudsters for various offences bordering on cybercrimes at a hideout in Awka, Anambra State and Benin, Edo State. An EFCC statement said the arrest of the 29 suspects in Enugu was sequel to credible intelligence obtained by the commission on their nefarious activities necessitating an extensive surveillance on them before they were arrested in the early hours of March 9. The arrested suspects are Izuchukwu Precious Chinonso, Izuchukwu Chukwuebuka Goodness, Ogu Chukwuebuka Kingsley, Iheagwam Sixtus Chijoke, Igwemadu Kenechukwu Emmanuel, Joseph Igwe and Ilegbukem Justin. Others are Ilegbunem Paschal Onyeka, Paul Okoye, Muolokwu Osita, Okechukwu Ifeanyichukwu, Nnamdi Agbo, Chinyeluba Ifeanyi and Mbanugo Ifeanyi. The statement listed other suspects to include Bernard Femi, Okafor Ekene, Nwabueze Ifeanyi, Edeh Chukwuebuka, Mgbemefulu Henry, Chinecherem Okpara, Kosisochukwu Chukwuemeka Harrison, Okoroafor Elochukwu, Edeh Gerald, Chukwuemeka Emmanuel, Chimezie Ugwu, Aguguom Ifeanyi, Mgbemfulu Collin, Edeh Izuchukwu Dominic and Oputa Ekene. In the course of the arrest, five exotic cars, a brand new Mercedes Benz GLK with registration number HAL-160-MX, Lexus IS 250 with registration number UMZ-145-MX, Toyota Avalon XLS with registration number KRD-641-FL, Lexus ES 350 with registration number GWA-489-KZ, Lexus ES 330 with registration number AAH-25-AE were recovered from them. Other incriminating materials recovered from the suspects include various mobile phones and laptops. It said the suspects would soon be charged to court as soon as the investigations are concluded. Meanwhile, the Benin Zonal Office of the commission arrested 11 suspected internet fraudsters in Benin City. The suspects were arrested at their hideout sequel to information on their alleged criminal activities. Those arrested are: Osaze Oria, Olayemi James, Princes Emmanuel Dennis, Samuel Uboh, Ellot Igunbor, Ahunwan Nosakhare ,Theopilus Marvis, Oshodi Ufo, Irabor Osarumwense, Ohiaka Oshioke and Lucky Uhunamure. Items recovered from them include mobile phones, laptops and charms. A bucket of water with cowries, zinc, keys, beads and mutilated naira notes were discovered in one of the suspect’s apartment. The EFCC statement said the suspects made useful statements and would be arraigned in court as soon as investigations are completed.