As the world celebrates the International Womens’ Day, Northcourt Real Estate and UPDC Plc will be holding a virtual event tagged: “Excelling as a Woman in Real Estate,” today. The event aims to inspire the current and next generations of women in Nigeria’s real estate market. The event is a, “lessons sharing session” where select leading female experts in the African real estate industry will be giving unique insight into how they have grown their careers in the male-dominated world of real estate. The acting CEO, UPDC Plc, Deborah Nicol-Omeruah, alongside the General Manager, Northcourt Real Estate, Oyindamola Bamisile, will both be spearheading the event. Other speakers at the event are: Sade Hughes – Country Manager, Mixta Nigeria; Sa’adiya Aliyu – CEO, Urban Shelter; Uzo Oshogwe – CEO, Afriland Properties Plc; Modupe Anjous – CEO, Rydal Mews and Vivian Ombwayo – Director, Valuation and Research, Broll Kenya. “The format of the seminar is clear; there will be two panels – the first panel will be a discussion between women in real estate services such as property brokerage, property management, facility management, valuation and research. “The second panel will be a discussion amongst women in property development and investment. “Both panels have a similar aim; to share what other women need to know and do to excel in real estate,” a statement added. Speaking about the event – CEO of Northcourt, Tayo Odunsi said: “In recent years as more women have joined our team, they have brought in unique perspectives, enthusiasm and approaches that are not prevalent with the opposing sex. “We are a better-balanced organisation, and we are the better for it. This is one of many reasons why we’ve learnt to encourage female participation in real estate. “But the conversation needs to go beyond that. Organisations need to be more sensitive to the peculiarities of gender types and promote equal pay and opportunity. We believe this event will also bring such requirements to light and encourage firms to adopt best practices in this regard.”