Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, yesterday visited the families of two farmers who were killed in Isaba Ekiti, Ikole Local Government Area of the State, reiterating that the lives of Ekiti people are sacred to him and would do everything possible to protect them. The governor also sympathised with the families of the deceased, promising to ensure that the culprits are apprehended and brought to justice. The two farmers were killed in their farms last Friday by suspected herdsmen, who had earlier had confrontation with the victims. The killings sparked serious violent protest in the town last Saturday as many youths trooped out to condemn the horrendous action. However, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State has decried incessant killings by suspected Fulani herdsmen in the state, challenging the state Governor, Fayemi, to stop playing politics and take decisive steps to end the mindless killings. The PDP, which sympathised with the families of the people killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Ikole LGA last Saturday, said: “The killing by herders must stop now, and that the governor must act with sincerity of purpose. But Fayemi, who visited the town, was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Information Commissioner, Akin Omole, yesterday that: “Every life in Ekiti State is sacred, and by the grace of God, and with the sincere commitment of the state government to the protection of lives and property, as well as the cooperation of our people, justice will be done. “We stand by you and will do all it takes as a government to bring the culprits to book and ensure Ekiti is safe and secure.” Fayemi added that the state government regreted the gruesome killing of two farmers in Isaba-Ekiti, Ikole LGA. “The dear departed are reported to have been industrious family men and community leaders, who were popular and well loved by the community. They are Toyin Akeju aka Jisoro, and Mr. Yusuf Onoche also known as Baba Owala. They did not deserve the fate that befell them. “We empathise with the Asaba of Isaba-Ekiti, HRH Oba Olanrewaju Oluwaseun Adeyanju; the families of our slain kinsmen, and the entire people of Isaba-Ekiti on this tragic occurrence, which has understandably led to the protest of the killings. “We appeal to the community for calm, even when we are justifiably grieving and angry, and count on their cooperation with the security agencies in the investigations. “The deeply worrisome development is being investigated by the Ekiti State Command of the Nigeria Police Force, in collaboration with the Amotekun Corps in the state, with a view to bringing the culprits to book and forestalling a reoccurrence. The state government of is fully supportive of the security agencies in this regard,” the commissioner stated. In a statement issued yesterday by the PDP state Publicity Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju, the party said the governor must stop shedding crocodile tears and being politically correct on the killings in the state.