Chibuzor Oluchi One of the world’s renowned polymer scientists, Prof. Emmanuel Sadiku has been listed among the top 500 researchers, by scholarly output, in Africa over the period 2015-2020.
The listing was made by SciVal, a web based analytics solution that provides comprehensive access to the research performance of over 20,100 research institutions and their associated researchers from 231 nations worldwide. According to the organisation, the Ogidi born researcher has 170 scholarly output, his most recent publication being this year.
Sadiku was also credited with 1,562 citations and a h-index of 31. The h-index is an author level metric measuring the productivity and citation impact of the publications of a scientist or researcher.
He is well-known in polymer circles in Nigeria, Scotland, Italy, Germany, Sweden, South Africa and recently, in India for his exceptional research work. Although he spent some time in industry, he prefers the classroom and laboratories, sharing his knowledge and expertise with postgraduate students. Since 2004, Sadiku has been working as the Research and Development Professor at the Department of Polymer Technology, Tshwane University of Technology, South Africa. He started his academic career after successfully completing a National Diploma in Textile Technology at the Kaduna Polytechnic in Nigeria.
Thereafter, he received a scholarship to enrol for a BSc (Hon) in Fibres and Polymer Science at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland. The theme of his thesis was Optical and Mechanical Properties Relationships of Polypropylene Films.
He completed his PhD at the same institution and whilst based in Sasolburg, South Africa, he worked as a Principal Scientist at Sasol. However, he preferred lecturing, research and development work. Sadiku is the author and co-author of many articles and book chapters on aspects relating to polymers. He has successfully supervised masters and doctoral students; and mentored several postdoctoral research fellows. His research work (with his students and postdoctoral research fellows), led to a number of intellectual properties (IP) registered. His field of expertise and research specialisation is material sciences and technologies, and polymer sciences, with focus on mixing of polymers, nanoclay polymers, rheology–polymers, X-ray diffraction of polymers, polymers for biomedical applications. Born in Ogidi in Ijumu Local Government Area, Kogi State, Sadiku attended St John’s Primary School, Ogidi; St Augustine’s College, Kabba; Kaduna Polytechnic and the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland.