By James Emejo The Managing Director/ Chief Executive, Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Prof. AdesojiAdesugba has said the federal government is committed to using the Free Trade Zone Scheme (FTZs) to reduce high unemployment in the country.
He added that the establishment of industrial hubs in various strategic locations has the capacity to gradually tackle widespread insecurity.
Adesugba, made the remark when Alhaji Usman Bello Kankara, the District Head of Kerate, Kankara, Katsina State paid him a courtesy in Abuja.
He pointed out that President MuhammedBuhari is quietly but diligently repositioning the country’s economic zones free trade to contribute significantly to both National Domestic Product (NDP) and Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
He said the government’s policy direction was exemplified by the revamping of decayed infrastructure in the two public zones in Kano and Calabar as well as allowing for the establishment of news ones across the country.
The NEPZA boss said: “We are set to visit Katsina State in a fortnight to flag-off the Funtua free trade zone dedicated for the production of cottons and fabrics for local consumption and exportation.
“This zone when operational, will leverage on the cotton belt of the North West to commence active production of varieties of fabrics in commercial quantities.”
In a statement by
Head, Corporate Communications, NEPZA, Mr. Martins Odeh, Adesugba, further explained that no part of the country would be exempted from habouring a type of zone, adding that many state governors were beginning to key into the zone business ecosystem to boost commerce, employment and revenues.
He said the authority believes that the zone can be used to improve the current economic situation, adding that, “In fact, if majority of our young people are gainfully engaged, the current security situation will improve dramatically.”
“We, therefore thank the president again for approving the Funtau free trade zone as this will go a long way to stabilize the state and its environs.”
He added that the zone scheme was a wonderful business concept aimed at speeding up industrialistion, adding that industries operating in both the private and public zones were providing unimaginable number of dependable employments to job seekers.
Earlier, Kankara had expressed delight on Adesugba’s appointment as chief executive of NEPZA, describing him as a, “square peg in square hole.”
The royal father also blamed the insecurity in the country on the lack of sustainable employment for the young people, adding that NEPZA’s rebirth under Adesugba will speedily change the narrative.
He said:”We are, therefore, eagerly waiting for the commissioning of the Funtua free trade zone. This wonderful business structure would no doubt boost commerce, production, employment, and income for our people.”