Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja, Laleye Dipo in Minna, and Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo
The governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have congratulated Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as he marked his 64th birthday yesterday. Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun; Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State and Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State have also hailed Osinbajo on his 64th birthday. The Chairman of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) and Governor of Kebbi State, Mr. Atiku Bagudu in a statement issued on behalf of the APC governors yesterday also commended Osinbajo for his selfless service to the nation. He said, “We commend your leadership, vision, commitment and loyalty to our nation and to President Muhammadu Buhari. We are confident that we will be able to resolve our national challenges and move our country, Nigeria, forward with your dedicated service to our APC led Federal Government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. “ In his personal congratulatory message, the Niger State Governor, Bello has described Osinbajo as an icon of humility and discipline. Bello said that: “Osinbajo is an icon of humility discipline and a hard working leader”. In the message signed on his behalf by his Chief Press Secretary, Ms. Mary Noel Berje, the governor also said the country’s vice president should be celebrated because: “ He (Osinbajo) has injected intelligence in the growth and development of the nation devoid of bias or sentiments”. In his message, Osun State governor, Oyetola has also congratulated the vice president and wished him a happy celebration. The governor in a press statement described Osinbajo as a patriotic Nigerian, an accomplished administrator and an exemplary leader, whose commitment to nation-building is commendable. On his part, Lagos State Governor, Sanwo-Olu, has also congratulated Osinbajo on the occasion of his 64th birthday. Sanwo-Olu in a statement issued yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, described Osinbajo as a seasoned administrator, legal luminary, university don and religious leader who has used his skills and positions in different capacities for national growth. Ogun State governor, Abiodun has also lauded impactful achievements of many sons and daughters of Ogun State in various fields of human endeavours, including Osinbajo, saying he is always filled with pride for the honour of being associated with Nigeria’s vice president. Speaking through a letter addressed to the Vice-President tagged, “64 Hearty Cheers to an Enigma with Accomplishments on Many Profits”, Abiodun extolled the virtues and impact achievements of the Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) to not only his state of birth, but also the country at large. He said, “The occasion of your 64th birthday today, 8th March 2021, provides me yet another opportunity to express gratitude to God and convey the very warm felicitations of my family, the Government and good people of Ogun State on your new age. Congratulations, Your Excellency!”