By Emmanuel Addeh The federal government said yesterday that it is planning to deploy the huge benefits inherent in nuclear technology in enhancing agricultural production, medicine, and provision of electricity, among others. During a technical meeting and national stakeholders’ workshop on activities of the Nuclear Technology Centre, run by the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission (NAEC), the government noted that it would continue to support all peaceful use of nuclear power. Permanent Secretary, Political and Economic Affairs, Office of Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Andrew Adejo, who declared the event open in Sheda, Abuja, called for the proper advancement of the various works of the centre to enhance the progress of the country. Adejo stated that the workshop could not have come at a better time, especially as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect public health, economy, medicine, and transportation. He added that the knowledge acquired from the stakeholders workshop can be applied to the peaceful application of nuclear science and technology to provide services in various fields. “The NTC was established to harness the various peaceful application of nuclear science and technology, and to provide services in the field of agriculture, medicine, industry , energy and education,” he said. Acting Chairman of NAEC, Mr. Mukhtar Ali, in his welcome address, noted that the commission was always willing and ready to collaborate with relevant stakeholders to achieve the objectives of the centre. He added that the centre is mandated to initiate, promote and implement rational, realistic and innovative research and development programmes for the socio-economic development of Nigeria. “Currently seven nuclear energy research centres operate under the supervision of the commission, five of which are university-based while the commission concentrates on the general formulation of requisite policies and the strategic implementation of National Nuclear Power Programme (NNPP). “In view of this, the commission is in partnership with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in the plan and implementation of the above strategies,” he stated.