Rebecca Ejifoma In honor of International Women’s Day (IWD), Audiomack, a music streaming platform, has spotlighted 10 phenomenal women in the African music industry, who are impacting the growth of the music ecosystem across the continent. Tapping into this year’s global IWD theme #ChooseToChallenge, Audiomack highlighted how these women are challenging inequality and fostering inclusion within the African music scene through a video compilation amplifying their shared voices towards accelerating gender parity. This video, it says, serves as a call to action for other individuals in the African music industry to lend their support in creating a gender-balanced world. The video features Yemit Alade, Nigerian artiste; Kay Faith, South-Afncan Audio Engineer & Record Producer; Nadia Mukami, Kenyan Artiste; MzVee, Ghanaian Artiste; Osagie O., Country Manager for ONErpm Nigena. Others are: Zuchu, Tanzanian artiste; Muthoni Drummer Queen, Kenyan artiste; Ms Cosmo, South African Hip-Hop DJ; Aika Navy Kenzo, Tanzanian artiste; and Charlotte Bwana, Head of Business Development & Media Partnerships at Audiomack Africa. On the initiative, the CMO and Co-Founder of Audiomack, David Ponte, expressed the company’s pledge to ensuring gender parity and amplifying female voices across the continent. He said: “We celebrate the progress that has been made in the music industry but recognise that there is still more to be accomplished,” while assuring that “At Audiomack, we are committed to choosing to challenge by nurturing a diverse, inclusive environment in which all of our people are empowered to achieve their full potential.” To support the campaign, Audiomack is further amplifying female voices that drive culture and change by creating a #FemaleForces playlist full of tracks by both emerging and established female artistes across the continent, which can be found on the app. Audiomack is a free, limitless music sharing and discovery platform for artistes, tastemakers, labels and fans with a presence in all 54 African countries. Also commenting, the Vice President of Marketing and Brand Strategy at Audiomack Africa, Jason Johnson, described the #FemaleForces playlist as a testament to the amazing female talents across Africa who define the future of music. He, therefore, pledged the firm’s commitment to continue to champion the rights of women, “and will do this while celebrating the phenomenal African female powerhouses who have left permanent footsteps on the local and global music scene.”