*Kano Pillars, Rangers share points to trail the leaders Duro Ikhazuagbe Kwara United remained on top of the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) yesterday despite picking a point away at Wikki Tourist. Jibola Adeleke’s 82nd equaliser gave the leaders from Ilorin the point in Bauchi, which keeps them at the summit of the Nigerian topflight. Before Adeleke’s goal, Chinedu Udeagha had put the hosts ahead from the spot in the 39th minute. Kwara are on 26 points from 14 matches. Elsewhere, Kano Pillars and Rangers, who battle to another 1-1 result, trail the leaders by two points. Both Pillars and Rangers have only goal difference advantage over Enyimba, who are rested for the forthcoming continental fixture. Nasarawa United are fifth on the log, while Rivers United moved up a step to seventh spot. Adamawa United won their second match of the season but still remained at the drop zone, while Warri Wolves and FC IfeanyiUbah, who both have an outstanding fixture, as well as Katsina United complete the bottom four. Ernest Governor’s ninth minute strike gave Rangers the early lead against the Sai Masu Gida. Auwalu Malam equalised for Pillars three minutes before the break. Former champions Plateau United defeated MFM FC 3-1 at the New Jos Stadium. Mohammed Zulkifilu opened scoring for the home team in the 56th minute and added the second 20 minutes later. Nojeem Adeyinka reduced the deficit for MFM in the 81st minute, but Isah Ndala restored Plateau United’s two-goal cushion four minutes before full-time. In Port Harcourt, Rivers United returned to winning ways defeating Jigawa Golden Stars 2-0. Godwin Aguda and Cletus Emotan got the job done for the Pride of Rivers people. Heartland battled back from two goals down to share points 2-2 at home to Abia Warriors. Godwin Obaje scored twice early in the game to hand initiative to the visitors but Heartland fought their way back with two penalties from Pascal Eze and Samuel Nnoshiri. MATCH-DAY 14 Heartland 2-2 Abia Warriors Rivers Utd 2-0 Jigawa GS Plateau Utd 3-1 MFM Nasarawa Utd 1-0 Lobi Katsina Utd 0-0 Sunshine Adamawa 2-0 Dakkada Kano Pillars 1-1 Rangers Wikki 1-1 Kwara Utd