By  Kemi Olaitan The newly elected President of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Bishop Francis Wale Oke, has warned politicians not to turn Nigeria to a failed state by their actions, but should see political offices as avenues to serve the people. Oke gave the warning yesterday when he addressed a press conference at the permanent site of the Precious Cornerstone University, Ibadan. He appealed to politicians to use their positions to move the country forward and see the forthcoming 2023 general elections as a call to duty, noting that jostling for elective positions is nothing but a call to duty to rescue Nigeria from downfall. The cleric stated further that political leaders have failed Nigerians who are contending with myriad of challenges such as banditry, kidnapping, unemployment and insecurity that the country is enmeshed in. He said that Nigeria would have been a failed state before the 2015 elections if not for God’s intervention. Oke, however, advised politicians to strive to ensure that the 2015 prediction of the United States of America (USA) that the country will break did not come to pass, stating that history will not be kind to them if this should happen. “So at this time, we should see the elections coming up in 2023 as a call to duty. It is a call to duty to rescue Nigeria from downfall; to prevent Nigeria from becoming a failed state.” Oke clarified that the PFN is not a political party and do not have interest to becoming one, adding that one of his cardinal points is to ensure that harmony reigns between people of the northern and the southern Nigeria and to pray for the country. “We are praying to God to ensure that we have free and fair election. The PFN is primarily a spiritual house whose concern is to pray and fast and teaching our people to be godly citizens. We are not a political party and we do not plan to be one. “Part of my seven point agenda is to mobilise the PFN in all the 774 local government areas and 36 states for kingdom advancement and nation building. We want to promote north/south partnership where a man from Cross Rivers State will see a man from Kano as his brother.” he said.