Top contender for the Anambra State governorship election under the platform of All Progressives Congress, APC, Paul Orajiaka has unveiled his six point agenda to transform the state. Addressing party stakeholders at his campaign office in Awka, the state capital, Orajiaka stated that if voted into office come November, his administration would focus mainly on tackling the challenges of electricity, bad road network, unemployment, healthcare, education and security. The Harvard scholar and successful businessman noted that his plan for the state was premised on a recent survey by his foundation, Paul Orajiaka Foundation, POF, conducted across the 21 local government area of Anambra State to get first hand on the needs and challenges of the people. Orajiaka further stated that the survey and many other stakeholders’ engagements and consultations with professionals and intellectuals from the state, informed his decision to tackle the identified challenges from his first day in office as governor. “Apart from touring the entire 21 local government structures of our party, I’ve visited the public facilities of the local governments and my team and I came out with some findings. As a PhD research associate of Henley Business School of the University of Reading United Kingdom, I love data and analysis and I have itemized my findings. “After due analysis, I can tell you the peculiarities of the challenges which my team and I have narrowed down to 6 key areas – electricity, road network, job opportunities, health, education and security. These things trouble us as a people and we’re putting everything in place to address them.” Orajiaka appealed to his party members to have confidence in his ability to wrestle power from the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, if given the party’s ticket insisting that his promise to transform the state was not in doubt in view of his academic and business antecedents. He said, “Have faith in me. Have no doubt of my potentials and have no fear of our quest for victory. Whenever I give you my words, take it to the banks, it will never bounce. I’m assuring you that I will not retreat in this journey. I’m prepared in every facet of it. ” As a business man, entrepreneur per excellence, I’ve built my business from nothing to something. I am someone that sells baby toys, but was elevated by God to the point of aspiring to be a governor. It’s all about God’s grace. “I know what it takes to rule a state. I’ve taken my time to build my business, academics, and financial base. We’re fully prepared for what is ahead. This journey is a collective one. We’re all partners in this project. I can only be the governor, God willing and can’t deputize myself or be a commissioner. “The most important thing is how much love one has for his state and the people. That’s the love I’m bringing on board in this election. I pray God sees me worthy of being the David of our time to take us to the government house.” Earlier, the State chairman, Basil Ejidike, thanked Orajiaka for convening the meeting, assuring him of level playing ground for all the party contestants. He said the Orajiaka’s choice of office location was strategic in view of its proximity to both the government house and the Secretariat of APGA, in the state. “We’ll continue to mount pressure on the ruling party so they’ll begin to tidy up their handing over notes for the APC to take over,” he added.