Deji Elumoye and Udora Orizu in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives have felicitated former President Olusegun Obasanjo as he marked his 84th birthday anniversary.
In a statements his Media Assistant, Garba Shehu issued yesterday, Buhari noted that Nigeria would continue to look up to the former president for wisdom and statesmanship. Buhari said Nigeria “will continue to look up to the former president for wisdom and statesmanship.”
Buhari, on behalf of the Government of Nigeria, wished the former president, who has served the country with loyalty and huge dedication, continued good health and happiness. He prayed God almighty to sustain Obasanjo with greater wisdom and strength to continue his good works for the country as family, Nigerians and friends around the world celebrate the former president. Also in a statement by its leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu yesterday, the minority caucus congratulated Obasanjo on his 84th birthday, describing him as a true detribalised and patriotic leader. The caucus, also, extolled Obasanjo for his steadfastness in fighting for unity, stability, good governance, infrastructural development as well as entrenchment of democratic values in our country.
It said Obasanjo stands out as a great leader, whose vision, courage, and exceptional commitment lifted our country at her various trying moments. It said: ‘’As lawmakers, we extol Obasanjo’s statesmanship, particularly in leading our nation on the path of democratic rule, re-ordering our national priorities and productivity capacity, revamping our economy to achieve foreign debt relief and turning a once pariah nation into a global investment epicentre and one of the fastest growing economies in the world. ‘’Over the years, Obasanjo has demonstrated that the essence of holding office is in utilizing the opportunities and influences therein for the good of others instead of the self; a virtue for which he is celebrated all over the world. “Moreover, Obasanjo has remained a firm voice in demanding for good governance and we urge him not to relent in speaking out and providing direction as our nation battles the scourge of insecurity, social unrest and economic depression,” the minority said in its statement.