By Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Afe Babalola University Multi-system Hospital in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, has recorded yet another medical milestone, as it successfully performed the first Endovascular Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (EVAR) repair in Nigeria. The surgery was performed by a multi-disciplinary team of experts at the institution led by Dr. Hammed Ninalowo and assisted by Dr. Yemi Johnson and Dr. Dave Dhiren, on a patient with abdominal aortic aneurysm. A statement issued by the Director of Corporate Affairs of the hospital, Tunde Olofintila, yesterday, said aneurysm is a bulge in the wall of vessels in the body due to inherent weakness in the wall. “This often results in the bloating of the vessels and subsequent rupture if left untreated, and could lead to death,” the statement said. Olofinyika said until this index case, EVAR has never been done in Nigeria or West Africa. He said: “It therefore remains undisputable that this is the first time this procedure is being carried out in Nigeria and possibly in West Africa. This highly sophisticated procedure can only be carried out in a facility like ABUAD Multi-System Hospital where modern state-of-the-art facilities are available for the required multi-disciplinary team, including an Interventional Radiologist, Cardiologist, Cardiovascular Surgeon, Nephrologist, Anesthesiologist and a functioning cardiac catheterisation laboratory among others. “By this successful operation, ABUAD Multi System Hospital has again positively demonstrated its ability and capability to solve issues of AVER as a result of which Nigerians no longer need to travel abroad for their endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm (EVAR) issues. “Other giant strides recorded by ABUTH included spine surgeries, including correction of deformities, total joint replacement surgeries, including revisions and adult reconstruction surgeries, correction of limb deformities, limb lengthening among several others are being carried out routinely in the hospital.” The university’s spokesperson said the availability of these procedures offers several advantages, including curbing outward medical tourism, reduction in the need for foreign exchange “which is currently very scarce in the country and transfer of this rare skill to our local doctors.”