The Ogun State Governor, Mr. Dapo Abiodun, disclosed during the weekend that his administration would give Abeokuta a befitting position as a worthy state capital. Abiodun disclosed this when he inspected the new housing project in Kobape, Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of the state. He said that the main objective of his administration in the housing sector is to provide 2000 affordable houses to the people of the state. The governor said: “We are targeting 2000 units, which will make history since the creation of the state by any administration. The first phase of this project is 500 units of two and three-bedroom expanded units. “Before we embarked on this project, we did a survey in line with our inclusiveness. We wanted to be sure that the housing we are providing meet the expectations of our people in terms of size of the land, building, affordability and the location of the project.” He noted that the Kobape housing project has affected the ecosystem of the area as business activities have sprung up in the axis. “As we replicate this model across the state, it begins to draw us closer to achieving our objective of empowering our people and touching their lives positively. What we are doing here is also going on in Ikenne, Sagamu, Ijebu-Ode, Ota and Ilaro,” he said. Abiodun described housing as one of the pillars of the social well-being programmes of his administration. The governor also assured that the ongoing reconstruction of the Sagamu-Kobape-Abeokuta Expressway would be completed by the end of May 2021. He said that the steps taken by his administration to complete the Kuto Bridge and other abandoned projects are assurances that any other abandoned project done with the commonwealth of the state would not be left to rot away. The governor promised the villagers that he would immediately mandate his Commissioners for Education and his counterpart in the Health Ministry to come to the area and look at ways to build a befitting health centre and school for the area.