Keeping its promise to reward customers in the itel Red Valentine Promo, the mobile technology brand whose slogan is ‘Enjoy Better Life’, gave the selected customers a time of their lives at a recent event. Held at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, customers were treated to cocktails, couple’s games, quizzes and hung out with the brand’s ambassador, singer and rapper Olamide. They also smiled home with gifts. Speaking at the event, itel’s Marketing Manager (West Africa), Oke Umurhohwo, said the event is a demonstration of the unmeasurable value the mobile technology giant places on its fans and customers, stressing that itel will always focus on helping them enjoy better life. The company also announced that it is not terminating its relationship with Olamide. The entertainer represents the brand’s product portfolio of smartphones, accessories, and televisions. This forward-thinking choice will no doubt reinforce the desire of both brands to give their communities, customers, and fans alike the means to enjoy a better life like never before. itel will keep delivering reliable and trendy mobile technology solutions, while Olamide will keep making music that appeals to a large and varied market. “Olamide has been a positive complement to our brand’s vision for the past year, and we are delighted that he will be remaining in the family even as we move forward in providing diverse and innovative products to our target markets,” said Umurhohwo. “It is something great to collaborate with a people’s brand like itel,” added Olamide. “We share similar goals and to me, and this has always been a relationship built on giving the best to the people and to help them enjoy a better life. I look forward to the greater things we will do together in the years ahead.” Still in the spirit of Valentine, the brand stormed Computer Village, Lagos, with Big Brother Naija former contestant, Dorathy Bachor, and in Aba, with popular Nigerian actor Zubby Michael. At both locations, they were greeted by fans and rewarded customers with itel smartphones.