Spotify, a global audio streaming subscription service, has launched its service in Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. With a worldwide community of more than 345 million monthly active listeners, Spotify will offer a world-class audio listening and music discovery experience to listeners. The Spotify service is available for free or with an upgrade to Spotify Premium, a subscription service that offers an ad-free music listening experience. Spotify launch in Nigeria with its mix of features including more than 70 million international and local songs, 2.2 million podcasts and over 4 billion playlists. The platform offers everyday new music and podcast discovery, algorithmic recommendations personalised to each listener’s audio taste, and the freedom to engage Spotify across a wide range of devices and app integrations with Instagram, Facebook, Snapchat, Samsung, Tinder, Google Maps, Nike, and more. Speaking at the launch, the Chief Freemium Business Officer of Spotify, Alex Norström, said: “We are incredibly excited about the opportunity to bring together creators and listeners around the world. As we have expanded our international reach over the years, we have connected over eight million artists with listeners across nearly every continent, putting Spotify firmly at the heart of the global audio economy. Launching in these new markets is a key next step to fulfilling our ongoing commitment to building a truly borderless audio ecosystem.” Spotify Head of Music sub-Saharan Africa, PhionaOkumu, said: “African creators have always pushed boundaries, innovating and creating incredible sounds and starting from today we are giving them access and the opportunity to connect with a global audience of fans. By bringing in a best in class product and a localized experience made for Africa, we will contribute to boosting the growth of the local streaming ecosystem. We hope our new listeners are going to love the revolutionary audio experience we are bringing to the rest of the continent.” Spotify’s most-popular feature ‘playlists’ are made for Africa Spotify has uniquely tailored its music experience for Africa, expertly curated and updated regularly with more than 100 playlists across some of the most popular genres in the continent.