Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje yesterday justified the decision of the federal government to declare a no-fly zone in Zamfara State, saying it would make the state and its neighbours more secure. Consequently, the governor warned political leaders not to toy with security-related matters, saying negative reactions from states can undermine the efforts of the federal government in securing the nation.
He gave this warning in a statement by his Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, describing the declaration of Zamfara a no-fly zone as a well thought-out security strategy. He noted that the National Security Council came up with the strategy because it would help to overcome security challenges not only in Zamfara but other neighbouring states.
He urged the politicians to wait and see how the strategy would work before making comments capable of undercutting the efforts of security services to keep the country safe.
The governor observed that the measure would aid in cutting suspected logistics supply and evacuation of the nation’s natural resources particularly gold. “The issues of security should be beyond partisan considerations. I do not see anything political in declaring the no-fly zone in Zamfara state. It is purely based on security and intelligence reports that there are suspicious criminal activities going on there.
“The area has abundant natural resources, particularly gold. There is this suspicion the helicopters that venture into the forest and mining areas are being used to transport food and other supplies to the bandits including weaponry,” he said.
He said the country needed concerted efforts by stakeholders to combat the scourge of kidnappings, insurgency and banditry thumping the country rather than reducing it to a mere political tool. The governor said in view of the prevailing security challenges, particularly in the North West and North East, there was the need for a synergy between the states and the federal government to prevent the situation from getting out of control.
He also said a concerted approach by state governments and the cooperation of all security agencies, traditional rulers, community and religious leaders was urgently needed to successfully tackle and overcome security challenges in the country. Meanwhile, the Kano State Government yesterday suspended the proposed dialogue between a Kano-base cleric, Malam Nasir Kabara and representatives of a coalition of Islamic scholars, which was scheduled for Sunday, March 7. In another statement yesterday, the state government urged the people to remain calm pending the outcome of a court ruling in the matter, saying it would obey the order of the court and suspend the debate. It said the Chief Magistrate’s Court No 12 Gidan Murtala presided over by Muhammad Jibrin Friday said its earlier order of February 8, 2021, which suspended Malam Kabara from further preaching in the state should be maintained by all parties. It added that Friday’s order was granted by the court pursuant to a motion on notice by Ma’aruf Yakasai, who was seeking to be joined in the ongoing case. The statement reaffirmed Ganduje’s commitment as Khadimul Islam to the promotion of religious harmony in the state. It also called on the people in the state to be law abiding and desist from any act capable of breaching the peace.