Segun James The leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-east geo-political zone and Governor of Enugu State, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, on Saturday, led party delegates to the zonal congress to elect Chief Ali Odefa as the National Vice Chairman (South-east) of the PDP. The PDP zonal congress also elected 14 other members of the Zonal Executive Committee of the party through a peaceful and transparent election that was conducted by the Electoral Committee led by Dr. Ibrahim Umar.
The electoral process was monitored and thereafter endorsed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as orderly, peaceful and credible. The other elected Zonal Working Committee members, who were sworn in alongside the new National Vice Chairman, Chief Odefa, are: Mr. Ugwu James (Zonal Secretary); Hon. Emeka Okeke (Zonal Treasurer); Hon. Casmir Ugwu (Zonal Financial Secretary); Hon. Mike Ahumibe (Zonal Organising Secretary); Mr. Ukpai Ukairo (Zonal Legal Adviser); Mr. Augustine Okeke; (Zonal Publicity Secretary); Hon. Lazarus Ogbe (Zonal Auditor); Mrs. Mary Omile (Zonal Woman Leader) and Comrade Chidiebere Egwu (Zonal Youth Leader). The five others who were elected as Zonal Ex-officio members are Chief Damian Ozurumba (Abia); Mrs. Anthonia Nwankwu (Anambra); Mr. Francis Kalu (Ebonyi); Chief Romanus Edeh (Enugu) and Sir. Stanley Ekezie (Imo).
The zonal congress was attended by the Deputy Governor of Abia State, Hon. Ude Oko Chukwu; the PDP National Organising Secretary, Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd); the National Youth Leader, Hon. Sunday Udeh-Okoye; former Governors of Ebonyi, Anambra and Imo states, Senator Sam Egwu, Mr. Peter Obi and Hon. Emeka Ihedioha respectively. Others in attendance include: National and State Assembly members from the zone, Mr. Olisa Metuh, Mrs. Josephine Anenih, Mr. Chris Ubah, and other esteemed leaders of the party in the zone, including the new returnee in Anambra State, Hon. Tony Nwoye.
The congress also elected six National Ex-officio members of the party from the South-east. The newly-elected National Ex-officio members are: Mr. Ibe Nwadioha (Abia); Mr. Okey Muo-Aroh (Anambra); Ms. Nonye Nwangwu (Anambra); Hon. Harrison Onwe (Ebonyi); Princess Edith Okoro N. (Enugu) and Hon. Chinemerem Madu (Imo).
Announcing the result, the Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Umar, declared Odefa as the winner.
Endorsing the PDP zonal congress, the Enugu State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Emeka Ononamadu, described the exercise as orderly and peaceful.