One killed in union members’ clash By James Sowole Ondo State Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has ordered indefinite suspension of activities of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state. He directed all NURTW members are to immediately vacate all motor parks across the state. One person was killed and several others injured yesterday when members of the NURTW, engaged in free-for-all fight over leadership tussle. Akeredolu, who spoke yesterday through his Senior Special Assistant on Special Duties and Strategy, Dr. Doyin Odebowale, said the indefinite suspension would not affect RTEAN. He said the decision to suspend NURTW activities indefinitely was based on the unruly and uncultured behaviour of the union leaders. He said the violent attacks on members and the innocent citizens were unacceptable. The governor took the drastic action to forestall more deaths as two persons were feared killed yesterday following a clash between two factions of the NURTW in Akure, the state capital. Meanwhile, one person was killed and several others injured yesterday when members of the NURTW, engaged in free-for-all fight over leadership tussle. The confrontation among the members of the transport workers union caused pandemonium at the popular Old Garage area along Oyemekun-Adesida Road in the Akure metropolis. During the clash, dangerous weapons including guns, cutlass, axe and charms we’re freely used. The man that was killed was identified as Ademola Ademoyegun. Security men comprising men of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), policemen and Department of State Services (DSS), were drafted to the scenes of the crisis. In protest against the killing of their members, a faction of the union carried the corpse of their slain member, to the palace of the Traditional Ruler of Akure, the Deji, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi. After leaving the palace, the protesters also moved to the Governor’s Office, Alagbaka, where the Deputy Governor, Hon. Lucky Ayedatiwa, addressed them. The deputy governor told the protesters that government would investigate the matter and take appropriate action. Addressing journalists on the incident, the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Okuwarotimi Akeredolu’ on Special Duties and Strategy, Odebowale, announced indefinite suspension of NURTW, in the state. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), for Ondo State Command, Mr. Tee Leo-Ikoro, said investigation has commenced on the matter to get to its root.