Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa has seemingly been hiding behind his Government House’s doors, preferring to work quietly. Unknown to many, the man popularly known as the Miracle Governor due to the way he emerged has more on offer in 365 days than his critics are aware. Senator Diri assumed the governorship mantle of Bayelsa on February 14, 2020, with Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo deputy governor. Diri had wrested power from the declared winner of the November 16, 2019 governorship election, David Lyon (whose victory was overturned by the Supreme Court because his running mate submitted false documents to INEC). Diri came to power unexpectedly, returning the state’s apex position to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Since then, Diri has seemingly kept a low profile. Seeing as it is both strange and impossible to understand that a sitting governor would go under the radar, folks called out, asking to see what Diri has accomplished in his first 365 days in office. When the veil was removed, it interestingly revealed some of what he had been doing undercover. From road and transport to education, health and media, Diri has touched them all. Some ongoing, yes, while others have already been commissioned and running. Some of the projects include the Glory Drive Road from Igbogene to Onopa and the Igbogene to Elebele Outer Ring Road (which were both forgotten for some time but were taken up by Diri’s administration). The Sagbama-Ekeremor Road, Yenagoa-Oporoma Road and the Isaac Boro Express Road (past projects of the previous administration, which Diri has continued work on), the 4.5km Igbedi Road in Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA, the expansion and beautification of the Edepie/Etegwe Roundabout. Others are the Elebele community bridge in Ogbia Local Government Area and the complex to house three state-owned media houses (Radio Bayelsa, Niger Delta TV and New Waves) (all of which were started by Diri and are ongoing). Then you have the water project in Ovom Town, Yenagoa LGA (which has been completed); the Imiringi community bridge in Ogbia LGA, Kaiama Referral Hospital and the ultramodern incinerator at the Bayelsa Medical University complex (which were all commissioned on February 12, 2021 — two days before Diri marked his first year in office).
Overall, there is still a mile to go before the tenure of Governor Diri ends. In the meantime, the man is quiet but busy, and the evidence is there for all to see.