Chukwudi Dimkpa, an engineer and stakeholder in the Rivers Chapter of the All Progressives Congress commends the Supreme Court for delivering a judgment that supposedly brings a closure to the protracted litigation by different groups and individuals seeking control of the party The recent Supreme Court judgement that brought to finality the protracted, ill-intentioned, needless and sponsored affray within the ranks of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State can be said to be the much needed stimulant for liberation of the state to unleash her true greatness. Even if it is for the APC to put the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on its toe by playing its role as a vibrant opposition, there is no better time than now to have a robust and non-combative presence for the APC in Rivers State. More than ever, the APC in Rivers State needs to bury the hatcthet of bitterness, mudslinging and senseless rivalry in order to position itself as a credible alternative for good governance. Every well meaning resident and stakeholde should be concerned about how the party will take over the state in the upcoming elections. As a critical stakeholder, I, Chukwudi Dimkpa, commend the courage of the Supreme Court in doing justice to the various sponsored suits that sought to entangle the party in endless litigation and by effect thwart the aspiration of Rivers people. The APC is not just for a virile opposition in the state but for a political platform for delivery of good governance. The return of an unhindered APC in Rivers is most commendable. The age long aphorism that everyday may exist for the thief but one day would be for the owner played out eventually as the almost endless daily battles instigated by external forces for the APC have now been effectively and permanently neutralised. Thus, paving the way for the rejuvenation of our great Party to meet the yearnings of Rivers people for better, robust, more inclusive, empathetic and forward-looking governance beyond the grandstanding delusion of short-lived brick and mortar myopia. To this end, may I commend the steadfastness of all members of our party, the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State, who stayed true to their commitments to the party and its leader, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, Nigeria’s performing Minister of Transportation, throughout the trying moments of the party. This victory is particularly dedicated to you. May God bless you. To other stakeholders, especially the friends of the party across all political divides and nonpolitical quarters, who prayed and hoped that a day like this would come in which Rivers State would have an opportunity to have a credible alternative political platform, I tell you the truth, the coast is now clear and the party now stands ready to welcome you all into its enlarging fold. For far too long, the derailment of good governance of our dear Rivers State, the capture of state resources, the impoverishment of our people have gone on unabated on account of the state-sponsorship of crisis within the APC, leading ultimately to the loss of creative opportunities for the growth of the state endured while peace loving and right thinking people sought legal means of ending the nightmare. Thankfully, all that has come to an end on account of the well-reasoned judgment of the Supreme Court. The gates are now wide open and the invitation is now extended to all and sundry desiring the best for Rivers State to come in and join hands with APC as its members work on liberating Rivers State from the stranglehold of its current captor and begin the journey of unleashing refreshing waves of opportunities and progress for the people without discrimation of whatever kind. QUOTE To this end, may I commend the steadfastness of all members of our party, the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State, who stayed true to their commitments to the party and its leader, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, Nigeria’s performing Minister of Transportation, throughout the trying moments of the party. This victory is particularly dedicated to you. May God bless you. To other stakeholders, especially the friends of the party across all political divides and nonpolitical quarters, who prayed and hoped that a day like this would come in which Rivers State would have an opportunity to have a credible alternative political platform, I tell you the truth, the coast is now clear and the party now stands ready to welcome you all into its enlarging fold