Nume Ekeghe Transcorp Hotels Plc has announced the launch of ‘Aura,’ a new digital platform through which people can book accommodation and other services offered by the organisation.
Aura, which is Transcorp’s first in the alternative accommodation segment, is part of the company’s asset-light model, leveraging technology to deliver true hospitality, exciting experiences, and drive shareholder value. In a statement made available to THISDAY, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Transcorp Hotels Plc, Ms. Dupe Olusola explained: “It’s a new dawn in the hospitality industry. I am thrilled to introduce you to Aura by Transcorp, the digital platform we are using to connect people to quality accommodation, great food, and awesome experiences. “For more than 30 years, Transcorp Hotels Plc has been at the forefront of creating a superior guest experience at our locations. Today, our commitment to innovation has offered us an opportunity to extend this beyond the hotel premises.” The statement explained that the launch of Aura was one of the most significant developments in the company’s history as it seeks to transform the travel and tourism industry in Africa by focusing on three important components of travel, “whether for leisure or business where you stay, what you eat and how you spend your time.” Speaking further, Chief Executive Officer, Africa Prudential Plc, Mr. Obong Idiong, expressed excitement, saying: “Finding the right accommodation when you travel can be incredibly complex. “Options available for the right prices are often limited, and travelers sometimes end up with accommodation that taints the travel experience. “Transcorp Hotels Plc has been able to fix that with Aura and we are proud to be associated with them. “To ensure topnotch user experience, we built a solution to drive digital transformation through the adoption of shared living spaces for the Aura business.
“With an advanced search algorithm powered by artificial intelligence, Aura determines the relevance of locations taking into consideration, the customers’ preferences and requirements to meet them at the point of their needs,” Idiong added. Also speaking, a travel enthusiast and early adopter of Aura, Ms. Priscilla Adeboye, said the global pandemic has pushed international travel down her list.
“But I still want to be able to take some time off work or spend a weekend away from home with the family. I have found incredible homes on Aura that meet my need for space and privacy.”