In commemoration of International Women’s Day on March 8, Meluibe Foundation is organizing a week- long advocacy campaign to celebrate Nigerian women amidst calls for all women in Nigeria and beyond to challenge inequality and gender bias across all sectors. The organization as part of its commitments to empowering women and youths, seeks to leverage this event to address issues of gender bias in leadership roles across sectors. Across the globe, there has been an increase in the proportion of women in managerial positions. Report from the catalyst.org revealed that in 2019, the proportion of women in senior management roles globally grew to 29%, the highest number ever recorded. In Africa, the current percentage of women in managerial positions is estimated at 38%. However, Meluibe Foundation believes that women deserve more opportunities to lead.
In her remarks, the Foundation’s Director of Programmes, Obialunanma Nnaobi, noted that women have demonstrated that they have the skills, knowledge and networks to steer the helms of affairs at the organizational, society and national level. “This explains why there is an increasing acceptance of the female folk in today’s world and why we see women emerging as leaders, in varies spheres of life, but this does not mean that the stereotypes have been completely dealt with. Now more than ever before, all women must rise to challenge the odds and change the narrative. We want to see more women being actively bring in their experiences, perspectives and skills to the table, and make contributions to decisions, policies and laws that will shape the future we want.
“We must work together to form a gender equal world, where competence and qualification will be the basis for employing or electing leaders and not one’s gender”, she said. The organization will be organizing a one-week advocacy campaign across its social media platform. Included in the plan are: social media motivational posts, interviews ‘How can we support more women to take up leadership positions’? and would round off with a webinar on the Sunday, March 14, 2021.
The Meluibe Empowerment Foundation is a women and youth led organisation that works to empower communities to live more sustainable livelihoods. We do this using technology as a lever, to increase access to education and develop the capacity for knowledge transfer.
###