In solidarity with the United Nations International Women’s Day 2021 (IWD 2021) themed: “Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 World” and the offshoot #ChooseToChallenge campaign, the All African Music Awards, AFRIMA, is joining the rest of the world to honour the strength of women, and celebrate their diverse social, economic, cultural and political achievements. AFRIMA has called for accelerated gender parity in general and better remuneration for women in the culture industry in Africa. According to a statement issued by AFRIMA, the IWD 2021 turns the spotlight on the tremendous efforts by women and girls around the world in creating and sustaining the fight against COVID-19, their roles in shaping an equal future in the recovery from the pandemic, while highlighting the underlying structural gender gaps that still exist. The statement noted that COVID-19 struck the world in December 2019 and distorted the dynamics of human relations. According to the statement, the pandemic revealed the institutional gaps in society and amplified the need to create systems, safe spaces and opportunities for women, and also brought to fore the increasing importance of women representation in decision-making processes across all levels. In her remarks, Music Executive and Member of the International Jury of AFRIMA for the Diaspora in North Africa, Ms. Hadja Kobele Keita, gave credit to women entrepreneurs shattering the glass ceiling in the music industry. “At the very inception of the African music industry culture, women had always been at the forefront. However, we are grossly underpaid and underrepresented. In order to break barriers, women are creating their own path in the industry by starting their own companies and taking on more executive roles. It’s delicate but, for us to be heard in an industry overpowered by traditional norms, it is a significant step forward. What gives me hope for the future of women, particularly in the African music industry, is the fact that we have organisations like AFRIMA that are committed to pushing the agenda of empowering women in a society that tries to suppress our creativity”, Keita stated.