Legal practitioners have been encouraged to brace up for the emerging challenges occasioned by the global Covid-19 pandemic. This was the consensus of Speakers at the virtual webinar to mark the 4th Anniversary of Famsville Solicitors on March 1, 2021. The event which had the theme, ‘International Best Practices and Knowledge Sharing on Client Expectations’, had in attendance the Chairman, Nigeria Bar Association Section on Business Law, Mr. Ayuli Jemide, Immediate past, Co-President & Managing Partner of Littler, the World largest global employment and labour law practice, Jeremy Roth, Nuri Mirwani, Associate, Dentons, Legal Advisor Golborne Road Advisory, Kayode Adegbola, Kenneth Chijioke-Keme anchored the event while Dayo Adu Managing Partner, Famsville Solicitors and Woye Famojuro (Partner) hosted the online event. The Managing Partner, Dayo Adu and Woye Famojuro, took the audience through how the journey started and the vision of the firm in building a Pan-African Law Firm. The Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association Section on Business Law (NBA-SBL), Ayuli Jemide, delivered the opening remarks. During his opening remarks, he thanked Famsville Solicitors for the opportunity to speak at the event, he gave his goodwill message, and ended his opening remarks by advising Famsville Solicitors to enjoy the climb, set clear goals and targets and also, keep at them, he further gave insight on flexibility in work place. The Second speaker during the online event, Mr. Kayode Adegbola, spoke on the need for a legal framework for the regulation of crypto currency, and highlighted that foreign investors are most likely to invest where local businesses thrive. He further proposed the necessity of regulations that enable safety. Nuri Mirwani, an Associate at Dentons, advised attendees at the event, by drawing from her personal experience as an Employment Associate. She emphasised on four key points necessary for international growth and presence and which include: Appreciation of cultural relationships and understanding, People skills – Adequate communication with your local counsel and client, this helps to build a strong international firm presence, Mutual Appreciation and Quality service delivery. Nuri concluded that Famsville Solicitors ticks all the above criteria, and that the firm has exposed her to several local nuances. She acknowledged that it has been a huge milestone to have worked with the firm, and successfully built a long standing relationship with Famsville Solicitors. The Keynote Speaker, Jeremy Roth, highlighted that the first four years are the toughest. He also emphasised the need to have a good culture as a law firm as it is culture and conversations that hold us together. He also stated that, he is confident in Famsville’s capacity and strength to work with Littler and other establishments as partners. He emphasised the importance of taking note of reputational risks, that is, the need to ensure that all members of the team do their best to prevent Famsville from being associated with negative images in the eyes’ of current and prospective clients. Also, he emphasised on the need to avoid a disconnect, that is, the need to sell the right brand, and give the right attention to all cases. In concluding the event, Dayo Adu reiterated that the dream is and always will be, to build up a Pan-African Law Firm.