By Francis Sardauna As the world celebrates the International Women’s Day (IWD), the Katsina State chapter of the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) has admonished government at all levels to ensure that women are adequately represented in positions of power through gender-balanced appointments. The association also urged women to challenge inequality, injustice, all forms of abuse and non-inclusiveness suffered by women and children and always make a difference wherever they find themselves. The state NAWOJ Chairperson, Hannatu Mohammed, in a statement issued to THISDAY on Monday, called on government to provide more gender-sensitive empowerment programmes in order to boost self-reliance amongst women in the country. This year’s theme for the International Women’s Day, “Choose to Challenge”, aims to inspire, encourage and empower both women and men to challenge and call out gender bias and inequality in order to create a more inclusive world. Mohammed, in the statement, said: “As a union that seeks to improve the social wellbeing of women, the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) Katsina State council continues to mobilise and challenge the patriarchal status quo and influence social norms to facilitate the growth of women visionaries. “On this note, the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) Katsina State council amplifies the voices of its fearless members who represent the enormous potentials of women to call on all stakeholders to rededicate and reposition themselves in improving the quality-of-life of women. “We appeal to the government to ensure that women are adequately represented in positions of power through gender-balanced appointments. We equally call on the government to provide more gender-sensitive empowerment programmes in order to boost self-reliance among women.” She added: “As we mark the 2021 International Women’s Day, the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) Katsina State council celebrates all the resilient women in Nigeria, Africa and around the world. Happy International Women’s Day.”