Those whose paths have crossed that of Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, Director General, National Council for Arts and Culture, NCAC, are always quick to say that he is blunt to a fault. In their analyses of his personality, these people often maintain that he likes to call a spade a spade and that he always expresses his position on any issue based on personal conviction. Runsewe, who once headed the National Orientation Agency, may also be described as an activist. For some time, the former director general of the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation, NTDC, has been mouthing the need to keep the African culture’s sanctity. Among other preoccupations, he is leading the struggles to instil the core African cultures and values in African children.
At different fora, he sermonised and even called on parents to show the right paths to their children and wards to not fall into the bottomless pit of moral bankruptcy. In particular, Runsewe has not hidden his disgust for the lifestyle of popular cross-dresser, Okuneye Idris Olarenwaju, also known as Bobrisky, whom he describes as a bad influence on the Nigerian youths.
As proof of his sincerity of purpose, Runsewe tethered the rampaging bull in 29-year-old Okuneye when news broke that he was planning to set up the African chapter of Gay and LGBT on the occasion of his birthday in 2019. Commenting on the lifestyle of Okuneye, Runsewe, who was hailed by many across the country for putting Okuneye in check then, said: “He started by selling and using bleaching creams. Now, he has grown boobs, bums and hips.
“If he is doing well with his immoral lifestyle, how do you convince Nigerian youths to do the right thing? Bobrisky has the right, but not within the Nigerian environment. “If he wants to continue with that way of life, then he should leave Nigeria. Our culture does not allow such personality in our society.
“Just like in Nigeria where notorious homosexuals and cross-dressers have been arrested and released, the jail sentence passed on Cameroonian homosexual promoter vindicates the relentless campaign of the need to rid Nigeria of the presence of homosexuals such as Bobrisky and his likes.” Interestingly, Runsewe’s voice has refused to be drowned in the cacophony of noise by Okuneye’s followers, as some notable Nigerians have also begun to call him out. In a recent chat with Society Watch, the President, National Council for Women Societies, NCWS, Laraba Shoda, saluted the NCAC boss’ courage for condemning what she described as a big blot on African culture. Similarly, the notable Nollywood actor, Saheed Balogun, said Nigerian parents should rise against Bobrisky and his likes, who continually disrespect African cultures.
He stated, “Their alien lifestyles should be nipped in the bud and not allow to become another disease like corruption.”