To survive and flourish in the current disruptive socio-economic and political era occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, Nigerian and other global business leaders need to integrate risk management and effective leadership into their operations. That is Caroline Lucas’s conviction, an ardent advocate of Nigeria’s greatness and a director of the UK firm, TEXEM UK.
According to her, the world has never encountered a more disruptive year than 2020, when COVID-19 negatively affected global organisations.
On Sunday in Abuja, Lucas announced in a statement that on March 10 and March 11, the firm would hold live virtual sessions with Nigerian and other global business leaders to proffer strategies for success in the present uncertain times. The statement also disclosed the company’s new website, www.texem.co.uk, for public and private sector executives in Nigeria interested in participating in TEXEM’s programme “for optimal, excellent and impactful performance during and after COVID-19.”
It noted that since the emergence of COVID-19, individuals, and organisations struggled to survive and flourish.
While focusing on reducing the pandemic’s impact, TEXEM said many had forgotten that “there have always been other risks that need attention” for organisations to excel during these crises and beyond. To succeed in these dynamic, digital, and turbulent times, TEXEM pointed out that there “is an urgent need” for strategic leaders who can align culture, risk, and strategy for sustainable success. It explained, “Truth be told, every organisation faces risks, including internal ones that often arise from its daily operations and activities. For instance, some risks may arise from inappropriate, unethical, or illegal actions of the employees and even the management.
“These are common, but thankfully, they are preventable. Some other risks also come from external sources, and there is little that the management can do to prevent them. They include political and natural disasters.” The UK firm added that the current situation threw up other issues to contend with.
The statement noted: “But that is not all. Don’t forget there are social and economic landmines too to navigate, one of which triggered (the) #EndSARS (protests). “Cyber threats are still very much around, and the risk from it is growing as we adopt technology more to scale in a period of physical distancing. They did not vanish when COVID – 19 struck. Being a leader at such a time requires additional knowledge and skills on how to provide effective leadership.” The two-day virtual executive development programme will address how to integrate culture, risk management, strategy, and leadership to thrive. One of the faculties on this programme, Prof. Andrew Chambers, the world’s first professor of Internal Audit, said about the programme: “Given TEXEM’s impressive pedigree of consistently helping organisations to thrive and the world-renowned faculties, this is a programme that every executive should not miss. “Thus, this TEXEM, UK programme on ‘Risk Management & Effective Leadership for Superlative Performance during Turbulent Times’ scheduled to take place virtually, between 10-11 March 2021, promises to offer valuable insights on how to unlock scarce value in an era where there are few.”