The year 2020 was tough, but many people were able to cross into the New Year. Some, like former Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dakuku Adolphus Peterside, entered a golden age—the age of 50. Considering how far Dakuku Peterside has come, it is not difficult to assume that he is in his early 60s. However, as President Muhammadu Buhari stated in his celebratory message on Dakuku’s 50th birthday, the Rivers-born politician and administrator is a natural nation builder, a lawmaker with “quintessential grace, using his wealth of knowledge to reform public institutions for greater efficiency.” Peterside burst onto the political stage around 2003, when he served Rivers State as Special Adviser to Governor Peter Odili. Afterward, Peterside was appointed the Executive Director, Development and Leadership Institute; between 2007 and 2011, Peterside oversaw the construction and every related project in Rivers, meeting the requirements of a Commissioner of Works. Dakuku Peterside arrived at the national political space in 2011, serving as a lawmaker representing Andoni-Opobo-Nkoro Federal Constituency of Nigeria. He accomplished much in this station, especially when he headed the Committee on Downstream Petroleum Resources, oversaw the Petroleum Development Fund, and delivered over 30 papers (in five countries) on how best to leverage the oil and gas industry. Almost immediately after his term as a member of the House of Reps, President Buhari appointed Peterside the director general/CEO of NIMASA, and charged him with overseeing all things related to Nigerian shipping, maritime labour, and coastal waters: the inspection of naval vessels, provision of rescue services, etc. Although Peterside racked up merits as Nomads boss, President Buhari did not renew his appointment in 2020. According to recent reports, Dakuku Peterside is making a name for himself in various industries and sectors across the globe: including oil and gas, maritime regulation and security, all-round development, and leadership.
That is the life of Dakuku Peterside at 50, and at a glance: impactful, impressive, and inspirational.