The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria Centre for Financial Studies (CIBNCFS) in collaboration with the B. Adedipe Associates Limited are set to hold a roundtable session on the seventh National Economic Outlook, with the theme: “Implications for Businesses in Nigeria in 2021.” According to a statement, the annual event is typically held with the aim to engage all stakeholders in key sectors of the Nigerian economy and elicit implementable government policies. The forum also typically discusses topical and emerging issues in the banking industry and economy as well as their implications for businesses in the coming year. It stated that the seventh edition is particularly significant as the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on key sectors of the economy in 2021 would be examined. Furthermore, avenues on how businesses in key sectors could survive and grow despite the rough terrain would also be tackled. The virtual event scheduled to hold on Tuesday, January 19, 2021, would feature carefully selected subject matter experts who would share their insights on the preceding year as well as practicable solutions for businesses in the current year. It added that subject matter experts to feature include Dr. Doyin Salami, Chairman, Presidential Economic Advisory Council who would deliver the keynote address. Other panelists are Amb. Ayoola Olukanni, Director General, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA); Mr. Ayodeji Balogun, CEO, AFEX Commodity Exchange; Mr. Akeem Lawal, Divisional Chief Executive, Interswitch; and Mr. Johnson Seinde Samuel, MD/CEO, Infinity Paint International Limited among others would participate. Expected participants at the event include staff of financial institutions (regulatory institutions, deposit money banks, development banks, microfinance banks, insurance companies, capital market operators, etc.), academics, government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), NGOs and other key stakeholders in the Nigerian economy. The event would be hosted by the President/Chairman of Council of The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, Mr. Bayo Olugbemi, and the Chief Consultant, BAA Consult, Dr. Biodun Adedipe, FCIB.