Bennett Oghifo Periwinkle Residences Limited has unveiled Nigeria’s Reality TV show stars and ‘BBN Lockdown edition duo’, Mr. Ozoemena Joseph Chukwu (Ozo) and Miss Nengi Rebecca Hampson (Nengi) as It’s newest ambassadors. The much-loved housemates of the just concluded BBN Lockdown edition, who were known for their affection towards each other have been named the firm’s ambassadors. Ozo and Nengi are Lagos based celebrities, models and top brand influencers with over a million followers on their social media platforms. They both have an exciting and vivacious personality which will help drive the brand higher and reposition its investment destination. Ozo & Nengi, who were officially revealed as PERIWINKLE Residences’s ambassador on 18 January, has invested in one of the developer’s most iconic projects, Oxygen Apartments, which is the most luxurious residential apartment in Lekki Phase 1. At the unveiling event, the CEO/MD of the company, Mr. Chiedu Nweke noted that signing two brand ambassadors was expedient and a strategic move to increase brand awareness and reposition the Company’s luxury products and services, in line with fresh challenges in the property sector of the nation. In their remarks, the 2020 top five finalists of the most viewed Reality TV show, Big Brother Naija expressed their overwhelming joy and delight; describing the agreement signing as another remarkable milestone in their career path and stated that it was a pleasure teaming up with a company that is genuinely committed to redefining the way investment in real estate is perceived and delivering exclusive lifestyle to the Nigerian real estate industry. “We are honoured to be held in such high esteem by one of Nigeria’s most professional and dynamic property developers and look forward to promoting Periwinkle Residences in the country and beyond,” said Ozo. They further maintained that the location of the estate, the serene environment, the Waterview, the value and return on investment associated with properties at the estate are first-of-its-kind and thanked the management for conceptualising and delivering such iconic projects, particularly for making them a part of the history. The duo noted that Periwinkle lifestyle is an investment haven for real estate investors specifically because of its location, which is voted as one of most sought-after locations, Lagoon District, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. The estate presents unique residences and prides itself on the tenets of innovation, quality and exclusiveness. Each apartment in the estate is designed by top interior designers with an enviable blend of foreign and timeless trends that merges into contemporary themes. The Estate incorporates first-class amenities and luxurious materials in delivering exceptional services and first-class luxury living experience giving buyers a perfect blend of live, work and play environment. Nweke said he was confident that with a partner like Ozo, Nengi and other stars who would be appointed as Brand Ambassadors, the company’s efforts at redefining luxury lifestyle, creating wealth and rebranding real estate in the country would become flexible through their influence. He added that the exclusive lifestyle estate is an opportunity for investors to diversify their portfolio and capitalise on one of Lagos’ most sought-after property markets which guarantee at least 50% return on investment. “The next few years are shaping up to be some of the most exciting in PERIWINKLE’s history,” said Mr Nweke “With the new projects on the horizon and the expansion into other locations is set to go from strength to strength and we are really excited that we can be a part of it all. By becoming an ambassador for PERIWINKLE Residences, Ozo & Nengi are in good company, joining the property development firm’s elite team of celebrities who represent the organisation in key global markets.