…Expresses optimism about 2021 Mary Nnah Lilvera Group, a consultancy firm that is major in integrated marketing communication, has won the 2020 Africa Finance Award for the ‘Most Customer Focused Experiential Marketing‘ category. The firm, while celebrating the win, also expressed optimism about 2021, saying it will be a better year considering the fact that more businesses lost ground in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “A lot of businesses will hit the ground running in 2021 to make up for the lost time in 2020 and most importantly, businesses will be conducted differently as a result of the pandemic,” said Lilvera Nigeria Chief Ideas Officer, Buchi Johnson. Lilvera Nigeria was presented with the most customer focused experiential marketing award at the 9th edition of the award at Sheraton Hotel Lagos recently. While expressing gratitude to the organiser, Lilvera Nigeria Chief Ideas Officer, Buchi Johnson said, “this is the testament to the fact that the company has done well in 2020 that is known to be the most difficult year. “We are honoured by this award considering that there are so many fantastic experiential marketing with good customer tractions in Africa. We have been favoured by winning the 2020 the most customer focused experiential company award. Don’t forget this has been the craziest year for business.” Johnson, who believes that the honour has placed a burden on the company’s shoulder to continuously deliver on its core mandates, however dedicated the award to his clients that have shown unflinching support to his craft and firm’s ability to deliver at all times. He noted that without the team at Lilvera Nigeria, the honour would have been elusive. “I think apart from our clients, the team at Lilvera Nigeria has consistently put in the shift to get us to where we are today. Their efforts are the reason we win this award and without them this wouldn’t have become possible,” he said. On the importance of the award to the company, Johnson expressed the belief that the Africa Finance Award would spur the company to continue to integrate, listen more to the clients, become more aware of its environment and consistently see customers as the king.