Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Kwara State Governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has said that his administration would push harder efforts to reposition the state for sustainable and inclusive growth. AbdulRazaq, in a New Year statement issued in Ilorin yesterday and signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr..Rafiu Ajakaye, said that, “Our administration calls for every stakeholder to agree to a common agenda for growth and commit to rebuilding Kwara and make it work for all.” The governor also said that, “We will continue to pay special attention to the vulnerable and the poor, which has stood us out, while our investments in basic amenities will continue within available resources. “We will invest more in the legitimate dreams and aspirations of our youths. We will continue to respect the rights of every individual while hoping that differences will be kept within decent limits without anyone resorting to activities that could threaten public peace. “Fake news wrought heavy damage on the country in the outgoing year. Kwara State Government calls for everyone to avoid a repeat in the interest of all”. Also, the speaker of the state house of assembly, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Danladi-Salihu has said that the current 9th assembly would not renege on its people oriented legislation so as to move the state forward. Danladi-Salihu in a statement issued in Ilorin yesterday as his new year message to the people of the state stated that the new year would witness a new dawn in the socio-economic development of the state through more quantitative legislation. While congratulating the people of the state for scaling through year 2020, despite the tribulations and afflictions that characterised the outgoing year, the speaker called on Kwarans to sustain their resilience in the year 2021. This, he said would help them to build renewed hope, optimism and to consolidate on the modest progress made in the outgoing year notwithstanding the daunting challenges The state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in its New Year message enjoined the current administration in the state to fulfil its campaign promises to the people. This, the party believes would go a long way of stemming the rising unemployment among the teeming youths. The PDP in statement issued in Ilorin signed by the state chairman of the party, Hon. Kola Shittu said that, “the Kwara PDP holds that current realities in the State do not show signs of a better Kwara that we all hope for, as Governor Abdulrazaq has allegedly refused to fulfil his campaign promises and also failed to implement programmes and projects that can improve the socio-economic development of the State and impact positively on the lives of the people. “It is no gainsaying that previous administrations of PDP in the State implemented policies and programmes that improved the wellbeing and living condition of the people. “One of the major challenges confronting us today is youth unemployment. “It is however discouraging that while many state governments are coming up with different strategies and programmes to gainfully engage the youth and address youth unemployment, the Kwara State government under Governor Abdulrazaq has done absolutely nothing in this regard.” The party, therefore, called on the government to rise up to the challenge in the new year so as to have an improved socio economic growth of the populace.