Sunshine Stars’ teenage left winger, Ayo Adejubu, is emerging one of the revelations of 2020/21 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season and he’s quick to admit to relishing the opportunity to play in the topflight for Sunshine Stars. Adejubu who has been an instant hit for the Akure side and with a couple of games under hist told www.npfl.ng that the opportunity of wearing the jersey of Sunshine Stars is a dream come true. ‘’Each time I wear the jersey of Sunshine Stars, I look back to when I used to watch the team on television and most times also sneaking out to watch their training sessions. I never knew that one day I will be playing for this club, so it’s a dream come true for me.”
The former Akure City Football Academy player after contributing to the team’s win away to Dakkada FC in Uyo last Sunday, said he would love to help in accomplishing the club overall success than attain personal glory. He insisted that he only wants to ensure that his contributions to the team takes them to a top finish at the end of the season. ‘’I don’t have a personal target for the season, I am still a young player who is still developing in the game. For now, I am grateful to Coach Gbenga Ogungbote for the opportunities given to me so far, and I hope my efforts in the team will see us end the season on a high’’. Meanwhile, Rangers International F.C midfielder, Chiamaka Madu, yesterday insisted that the Flying Antelopes were going to Akure to annex all three points at stake in the match-day 7 NPFL 2020/2021 fixture against Sunshine Stars F.C at the Akure Last Township Stadium. The encounter which will happen on Sunday, January 31, 2021, hope to see the ‘Flying Antelopes’ players come up against their former coach, Olugbenga Ogunbote, who is now directing affairs at the ‘Owena Waves’. Madu said that he and his team mates have internalized all that the coach and his technical team have told them and were in the best frame of mind to do what they are paid to do on the field of play in Akure. “I think it’s going to be an interesting game due largely to the fact that we dropped two points in our last match while they got all three points in theirs away from home. We are looking forward to recover all the points we have lost,” stated the mercurial midfielder.” On the fact that he and his team mates would be playing against their former coach, Ogunbote, Chiamaka said, “I think he is going to be the one that will panic the more because he knows what we are capable of doing and majority of the players that worked with him are still here and I know he is a very good coach and would prepare extra hard for this match. We are not going for a draw as we need all the three points at stake.”