Multiple award-winning Computer Programmer, Financial Technologist, Diplomat, Internet Entrepreneur, Domain Broker, Computer Media Applications and Online Reputation Management Mogul, Sowemimo Abiodun Alex is the Founder/CEO iNet Telecommunications, CapitalMetriQ Swift Bank and InfoMetriQ Data Network. He is best known as founder of the global data system of information profiling Application PagePedia. On the 17th of March 2019, he was honored & awarded by the Egyptian President & Chairperson of African Union Abdel Fattah El-Sisi at the World Youth Forum as the most promising youth in Africa. He has also bagged several awards and achievements all through his career cutting through success stories from different industries and nations. Shedding light about his mission and course in IT he mentions, ‘Well i am trying to change the African Narrative through Data and Technology with Financial inclusion to help individuals and SMes. My major focus is to continue to put the black human race at the forefront of the global economy driven by technology.’ He gained invaluable understanding of the public process and the numerous challenges that a municipality faces long term as well as any given day. And also an outstanding true global citizen that shows natural genius for planning things. He can erect, construct and practically assemble applications to make things work with a unique cerebral excellence. Over the years, He has helped many clients, both public and private, deal with creating content and design, permitting, and development challenges. As a strategic multi resourceful individual he manages a portfolio of global market leaders comprised of many global profiles’ agency networks, numerous leading national advertising agencies; a global network of million marketing services companies; and a media group. That includes several world’s premier providers of media planning and buying services. Dr. Sowemimo Abiodun offer services in over 50 world marketing communications disciplines across more than 200 strategic brand platforms. Sowemimo speaks about his works in progress stating, ‘My ongoing projects are iNet Telecommunications, CapitalMetriQ Swift Bank & InfoMetriQ Data Network. And I have invented the internet Identity Number proffering solution to online identity theft.’