By Duro Ikhazuagbe Imama Amapakabo’s romance with Abia Warriors appears close to hitting the rock following the Umuahia club’s fourth NPFL defeat of the season to visiting Jigawa Golden Stars. Warriors suffered a 3-1 defeat right in front of their fans shortly after similar woeful outings against Enyimba, Rivers United and most recently Akwa United. Sadly, it was Abia Warriors that drew the first blood when Arit Utibe Archibong who headed the hosts into the lead just seven minutes into the game from Ndube Anaezemba’s free kick. And that goal was all Imama’s wards have to show for the day as Golden Stars seized the momentum, and cancelled out that advantage in the 24th minute when Quadri Olasukanmi leveled from a goal mouth scramble. Two more goals in the 74th minute and 85th by Samuel Stone gave Golden Stars the only away victory of Match day four of the Nigerian topflight and left Warriors wondering what manner of start to season for them. Unless there is a massive turnaround, Coach Amapakabo should better be looking for other openings before he’s kicks out of Umuahia. Four defeats in four games appears a dent on his profile. Elsewhere in Bauchi, Rivers United’s fairytale run was halted by hosts Wikki Tourists. Chinedu Udeagha’s 30th-minute goal was all that Wikki Tourists required to end River United’s unbeaten run. That defeat however failed to uproot the Pride of Rivers people from the summit of the NPFL on nine points. Rangers who caged FC IfeanyiUbah at the Cathedral in Enugu 2-1 are now challenging Rivers United for the top spot. The Flying Antelopes are on same nine points as the Port Harcourt team but second on less goal difference. Rangers victory was however not without drama. It took the Flying Antelopes 13 minutes to score after Patrick Egeonu fouled Christian Nnaji in the area earning himself a yellow card and penalty against his team FC IfeanyiUbah. Israel Abia made no mistake from the spot. Six minutes into the second half and Ekene Awazie curled the ball into the net after the Rangers goalkeeper, Nana Bonsu left his goal area to clear a shot but his half hit shot presented Awazie with the easiest of finishes. Rangers again shot into the lead within six minutes thought Shedrack Asiegbu with Chidiebere Nwobodo giving the assist. In Uyo, Akwa Ibom team, Dakkada were pecked by by visitors MFM FC 1-1 to share points at stake. The home side, Dakkada FC scored just before half time when a Kokoette Udo pass located Chigozie Solomon who scored a beauty of a goal from 25 yards. But MFM equalised with 13 minutes left to play when Temi Adebayo’s effort beat Thomas Omokhudu in goal for the hosts. Dakkada FC are now fifth on the log with MFM seventh. In Akure, Lobi Stars thought they had won all three points at stake as they led 2-1 up till the 92nd minute when that advantage was cancelled. Sunshine raced to the lead in the 9th minute as Fuad Ekelojuoti tapped in the ball from a low cross from Ayo Adejubu. Lobi however fought back to equalize just before the half time whistle sounded. Mathias Samuel slid the ball under the arms of the Sunshine goalkeeper from six yards out, assisted by Thomas Zenke. Lobi showed they were not faffing around when they thought they got the winner late in the game. With thirteen minutes left to play, Onuwa Chukwuka’s shot took a wicked deflection and Ossy Martins was well placed to volley home a rebound from close range. But in the 92nd minute, Sadeeq Yusuf reacted quickest to tap into an empty net after Seun Olulayo’s free kick had rattled the woodwork. Sunshine levelled it at the death. MATCH DAY 4 Heartland 2-0 Enyimba W’Wolves 3-0 Katsina Utd Sunshine 2-2 Lobi Dakkada 1-1 MFM FC K’Pillars 1-0 Plateau Utd Rangers 2-1 Ifeanyiubah Adamawa 0-0 Nasarawa Kwara Utd 1-0 Akwa Utd Abia Warriors 1-3 Jigawa Wikki 1-0 Rivers Utd