Benjamin Nworie in Abakaliki Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, has ordered the arrest of some top government officials from Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state. The arrest was sequel to a bloody clash in Effium community which led to killings and destruction of property at the weekend. Some of the officials arrested included the Chairman of Ohaukwu LGA, Clement Odah, and the member representing Ohaukwu North state constituency. The governor gave the directive through his Deputy, Kelechi Igwe, yesterday during an emergency meeting he convened yesterday morning. The crisis erupted between the leaders of the Nigeria Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) over revenue sharing formula. Also arrested are 30 other major stakeholders from the area, including the Coordinator of Effium Development Centre, Hon Sunday Agbo, and the Coordinator of Effium South, Hon Eucheria Ogwale. A former Chief Press Secretary to Umahi, and the current Special Assistant to the Governor on Fruits and Vegetable Market Development, Sir Emmanuel Uzor, and his counterpart in charge of Park Development, Chief Emmanuel Igwe, were also arrested. Meanwhile, the governor has imposed 4p.m. to 8a.m. curfew on the community. The curfew, according to a statement signed by the state Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Uchenna Orji, takes effect from January 24, 2020. The statement further urged security agencies to ensure strict enforcement, and to deal decisively with any person or group of persons involved in the killings and or the destruction of property in the area. According to the statement, “The Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief David Umahi, deeply frowns at the unabated violence and wanton destruction of lives and property in Effium community in Ohaukwu Local Government Area. “In his determination to restore peace and order in the community, the governor has imposed a curfew in Effium community from 4p.m. to 8a.m. on daily basis with effect from January 24, 2021, until normalcy returns to the affected community. “The governor further directed the security agencies to ensure the strict enforcement of the curfew, and to deal decisively with any person or group of persons involved in the killings and or destruction of property of the people no matter whose ox is gored.”