Cars45, a tech-enabled automotive trading platform, and last mile delivery service provider, Gokada, have announced a partnership to provide Lagos residents with more options to get their parcels delivered across the state at a cheaper price within the same day. The partnership was announced at a signing ceremony which took place at the Cars45 headquarters, Alausa, Lagos, recently. The new relationship will allow Cars45 to further improve its customer experience by enabling select retail outlets to serve as delivery or collections hubs for Gokada. Gokada customers will, in turn, be able to access and enjoy a rich bouquet of Cars45’s services at select retail outlets. The current spread of COVID-19 virus in Nigeria and the rest of the world necessitated more purposeful and deliberate movement, and delivery of products and services across the country, both companies said in a joint statement. National Head, Centre Operations, Cars45, Precious Adesina-Ola, said: “As a value-driven business, Cars45 has become synonymous with creating opportunities for stimulating economic development as well as delightful consumer experiences within the nation’s auto industry. “This partnership reinforces the premium we place on continuously providing value and convenience to our customers. Our retail touch points provide a range of excellent products and services that we believe Gokada customers will take advantage of when delivering their parcels.” Cars45 is present in over 50 locations across 11 states in Nigeria in addition to its operations in Kenya and Ghana. Giving reasons for the partnership, Head of Special Projects at Gokada, Sanya Chawla, said: “We want to be closer to our customers and make our deliveries faster and accessible. At Gokada, we think about the convenience of our customers first and are constantly experimenting with new ideas to ensure maximum satisfaction. We are proud to partner with Cars45 and welcome them to the Gokada family. We hope to expand to other Cars45 centres across Lagos soon.” Group Head, Marketing and Communications at Cars45, Oluwashola Adekoya, said: “We are excited to work with one of Nigeria’s most efficient and trusted courier delivery solution providers to enhance last mile services. Transparency, Customer Satisfaction, and Innovation are engrained in our DNA therefore, we believe strongly that consumers will get the best of both worlds under this initiative as it leverages Cars45’s network of conveniently located retail outlets.”