By Adibe Emenyonu Former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Adams Oshiomole and the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, yesterday mourned the death of Didi Adodo. Adodo was one of the commissioners who served under Oshiomhole as governor of Edo State. Oshiomole in a statement said he felt sad and a personal sense of loss hearing the news of the demise. “I received with sadness and a deep sense of personal loss, the passing of Comrade Didi Adodo in the early hours of today. Didi has been a dear friend of mine for decades, a comrade who walked side by side with me in the trenches during my struggles for Nigerian workers and only recently, Commissioner for Establishment and Special Duties under my administration as governor of Edo State. “When I got information that he was hospitalised, I immediately called him on Sunday 10th January 2021, conversed with him about his condition and wished him quick recovery. Little did I know that it would be my last conversation with this great but humble personality. On his part, Agba expressed shock and sadness over the sudden death of Adodo. In a condolence message yesterday, Agba described Adodo as “a dear friend” and one of the brightest minds in the cabinet of former Governor Oshiomhole in which he (Agba) also served. In the message contained in a press statement by his Special Assistant (Media), Sufuyan Ojeifo, the minister said with the death of Adodo, Nigeria had lost a great pathfinder who had an “incredibly positive impact on the labour movement as well as citizens of our state.” The press statement quoted Agba to have said: “I received with sadness the death today (Tuesday) of Comrade Didi Adodo in Benin City, Edo State after a brief illness. “Didi Adodo was a dear friend who had an incredibly positive impact on the labour movement as well as citizens of our state. “He will be missed by everyone who knew him. “With his death, Nigeria has lost a great servant and a committed man who served his people with dignity. “Adodo was a selfless, humble and loving person and these qualities endeared him to people in his long career in the labour unions. “My prayers and thoughts are with his family and the labour movements in Nigeria in this moment of grief. “He was a gentleman who always championed the cause of the masses especially workers. “He was a jovial and empathetic man who cherished friendship”.