Zedcrest Group has announced the appointment of Olumide Odewole as its new Chief Financial Officer, CFO, and a member of the executive management. Odewole’s new role required him to scale the group’s operations, while driving cultural change and strong sustainable performance. He is bringing onboard 15 years’ experience in Global business leadership, Corporate Finance, Deal Structuring and Fund Raising, Risk Management and Control, Financial and Treasury Management. Others included: P&L and Budget Management and Direction, Performance Management, Strategic Planning and Execution, Financial Analysis and Reporting, Product and Venture Development, amongst others. Prior to joining Zedcrest Group, Odewole was the Chief Operating Officer with Monument Group, a diversified company with interest in key sectors of the Nigerian Economy, from November 2017 to December 2020. Over the last decade, Odewole has worked as Corporate Finance and Governance Consultant for Phillips Consulting Limited; Finance and Strategy Manager for a leading downstream oil and gas company in Nigeria; Core Planning Manager for a telecommunications consulting firm in Nigeria and Accounts Manager and Tax Accountant for one of the FMCG companies in Nigeria. Odewole is a CFA Charter holder, a Qualified Accountant (Nigeria and the United Kingdom), and holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Accounting from the Oxford Brookes University (UK). Commenting on the appointment, Group Managing Director of Zedcrest Group, Adedayo Amzat, said, “I am pleased to welcome Olumide to Zedcrest Group and our leadership team. His deep and extensive experience in leading financial operations and value integration will make a strong contribution to the leadership of Zedcrest. “We have achieved a whole lot since inception in 2013, being lucky to have scored the most amazing senior leadership team to steer the ship. However, with an ambitious roadmap to execute, we clearly need a lot more management competence to drive our growth initiatives. “Olumide is bringing on-board a competence and culture, we have struggled with in-house, that of ordered and methodical execution,” he said.