By Oghenevwede Ohwovoriole The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouq, yesterday in Abuja disclosed that a total of 546,449 youths have so far benefited from the federal government’s N-Power initiative under the supervision of the ministry. Speaking during the official flagging off of the N-Creative programme for the northern zone with 1,500 participants, she said a total of 544,949 N-Power beneficiaries (graduates and non- graduates) had benefitted from the various components of the programme. The minister who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in her ministry, Bashir Alkali disclosed that with the addition of the N-Creative, the number of N-Power beneficiaries increased to 546,449.” She explained: “N-Creative is focused on equipping youths with relevant skills and certification to become competent workers, innovators and entrepreneurs prepared for both the domestic and global digital and creative industries. “The training will enable beneficiaries learn the necessary animation skills sought in storytelling, illustration/ graphic design, post production, script writing and voice acting. At conclusion, the training will upskill 3,000 young Nigerians as developers of world – class animated content for local and global consumption. “The N-Power programme is a critical part of the National Social Investment Programmes domiciled in the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development (FMHADMSD) and designed to achieve the national objectives of poverty reduction and job creation. The N-Power programme is key to helping young Nigerians acquire and develop life-long skills that ensure they become solution providers and entrepreneurs in their communities. “N-Power has three core segments: N-Power Volunteer Corps – the Graduate programme, N-Power Build – Non graduate programme and N-Power Knowledge – Which is a non-graduate programme and embodies the N-Tech Hardware, N-Tech Software and the N-Creative training programme.” She explained that her ministry was committed to ensuring that the strategic objectives of all the social intervention programmes are achieved, adding that in order to maintain the highest level of attendance and discipline by our N-Power Creative trainees, training accommodation is compulsory,” The minister stressed that during the camp training, each trainee is entitled to a feeding allowance of N900 per day as well as N10,000 monthly stipend for a period of one year. According to the minister, in addition, a laptop is provided as a training tool, procured to enable trainees maximise the skills learnt during their stay in the camp and to start off with their vocation. She expressed her desire to see N-creative beneficiaries in the Nigerian movie industry soon. “I even as she disclosed that the training programme will last for a period of two months plus after which they will go for a nine month apprenticeship programme in their various locations. N-Power Coordinator, Nsikak Okon said the N-CREATIVE trainees will be trained by veterans in the movie industry.