By Victor Ogunje The Ekiti State Government and the state Police Command have said they are stepping up security in every section of the state to ward off insecurity relating to alleged invasion of the Ekiti by herdsmen. They, however, urged the residents not to panic over the rumour that herders evicted from Ondo State’s forest reserves are allegedly invading the state in droves, which might spark up tension. They restated that Ekiti is safe for smooth running of businesses, as government and security agencies are monitoring the situation and rejigging the security architecture to tame any criminal element. In a statement in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday, the Police Commissioner, Mr Tunde Mobayo, urged the public to discountenance the rumour flying around alleging that herdsmen have relocated to the state forests following their eviction from the Ondo forest reserves by the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu. The statement said: “The Command wishes to inform the general public, particularly the people of Ekiti State, that it has neither sighted nor received any report of herders migrating or relocating into the state or its forest reserves. “We assure the people of Ekiti State of adequate security and we call on everyone to be calm, vigilant and report any strange and suspicious persons found in their environs to the nearest police station. “We are needing up security at the borders and we are ensuring that no criminal enters Ekiti but only those who are doing legitimate business. “The police appeal to the people to go about their businesses without fear. We are alive to our responsibility and we will do everything possible to make all our residents and their property safe.” Also in a statement made available to newsmen in Ado Ekiti, the state Commissioner for Information, Hon. Akin Omole, described Ekiti as one of the safest states in Nigeria in spite of the present security situation in the country. Omole assured residents in the state of the safety of their lives and properties, adding that relevant security agencies including the state Amotekun Corps are monitoring the state boundaries round the clock. According to him, the state government and security operatives are investigating and in control of situation surrounding the only skirmish that occurred at Ago Aduloju on the outskirts of the state capital. “The state government sympathises with all those who were affected by this and would like the community to be assured that no efforts will be spared to ensure that Ekiti citizens are able to conduct their affairs in peace, unhindered by criminals of any kind,” he said. Stressing the commitment of the Kayode Fayemi-led administration to the general wellbeing of people in the state, Omole advised the people to disregard all unsubstantiated social media reports and go about their lawful endeavours without fear of intimidation or threats to their lives and property.