By John Shiklam A former Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, Hon. Aminu Abdulahi Shagali, has opened up on the seeming crisis brewing in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in the state, alleging that “some retrogressive forces were bent at undermining Governor Nasir el-Rufai.” Addressing journalists yesterday in Kaduna, Shagali, who represents Sabon Gari constituency and was twice the Speaker of the assembly, said the retrogressive forces were determined and relentless in the wild pursuit of their agenda. The former speaker appealed to the people of the state, especially members of the APC to support the governor and save the state “from these retrogressive forces.” “We must come together, reason together and strive together to stand by the governor,” he said. Although he did not give details of the “retrogressive forces,” THISDAY learnt that a bitter rivalry between a serving senator and a top official of the state House of Assembly, ahead of the 2023 elections is causing cracks within the party. Supporters of the two politicians have in recent time, engaged each other in a war of words on programmes on local radio stations, allegedly sponsored by the rival politicians, both of whom are said to be loyalists of the governor. According to Shagali, the foundation laid by El-Rufai since he came to power is under threat and about to be destroyed by the retrogressive forces, who, according to him, are “purported loyalists of the governor, but are all well-armed with mischief.” He said, as a serving member and the immediate past speaker of the House of Assembly, “I have followed with deep concern recent political developments in the state.” He said, given the current scenario, “the picture is fraught with uncertainty,” stressing that the foundation laid by the governor was under threat and about to be destroyed. He said: “As a serving member and immediate past Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, I have followed with deep concern the recent political developments in Kaduna State. “The Governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai has since 2015, demonstrated forthrightness, courage and supreme innovation in charting purposeful development. “This can be seen in the reform of critical sectors such as education, healthcare, and security. “He has also led an economic rebirth leading to an unprecedented flow of investments into the State, and not least, the ongoing Kaduna, Zaria and Kafanchan urban renewal projects. “All these developments are taking place despite the resources constraints being faced by the state and acts of sabotage portrayed by some elements who wished to see the failure of this administration particularly when it comes to accessing resources to be used in Malam’s quest for taking the state to a greater level… Speaking further the lawmaker said, “As a third-term parliamentarian, critical stakeholder (twice Speaker June 2015 to February 2020) and a witness to the issues raised, I must point out that Kaduna State is clearly on a journey which will herald new levels of development and breakthrough, contingent upon the peace, unity, and cohesion of the present administration. He warned that, “Unwarranted upheaval and political disruption must be avoided in the time left before 2023.” He regretted that, “Sadly, given the current signs, the picture is fraught with uncertainty, and the foundation so masterfully laid is now under threat, and about to be destroyed on the altar of some retrogressive forces who are purported loyalists of the governor, but are all well-armed with mischief. “It is on this note that I appeal to the people of Kaduna State, and especially members of the All Progressives Congress to extend genuine solidarity to the governor and save our state from these retrogressive forces. “We must come together, reason together and strive together to stand by the governor. These forces will not hold back; they are relentless in the wild pursuit of their agenda and can only be subdued by a strong force for common good.”