*Former THISDAY Editor Oma Djebah posted to Thailand, Uzoma Emenike, USA; Ex-Minister Sarafa Ishola, UK; Ademola Seriki, Spain By Deji Elumoye The federal government has proposed the deployment of 52 non-career ambassadors in Nigeria’s foreign missions abroad. According to the one-page list entitled “Proposed Distribution of Missions to 52 Non-career Ambassadors” sighted by THISDAY on Monday, a former Deputy Editor of THISDAY Newspapers, Mr Oma Djebah, will go to Thailand while another top journalist and former Editor of The Guardian Newspaper, Mr. Debo Adesina, will serve in Togo. The Abia State nominee, Mrs. Uzoma Emenike will serve in Washington DC as Nigeria’s Ambassador to the United States of America while a former Minister from Ogun State, Sharafa Ishola, is posted to the United Kingdom as High Commissioner. Another former Minister from Lagos State, Ademola Seriki, will serve as Ambassador to Spain while Tijanni Mohammed-Bande, current Nigeria’s permanent representative to the United Nations, retains his post. Females on the list of non-career envoys posted include Folakemi Akinpelu (Oyo) to Philippines, Opunimi Akinkugbe (Ondo) to Greece, Deborah Illiya (Kaduna) to Congo Brazzaville, and Safiya Ahmed (Kano) to Romania. Other females are: Modupe Irele (Lagos) to Hungary, Ijeoma Chinegerem (Imo) Ireland, Maureen Tamuno (Rivers) Jamaica, Hajara Ibrahim (Gombe) Malyasia, Zahra Omar (Kwara) Malawi, Monique Ekpong (Cross River) Angola, and Eniola Ajayi (Ekiti) Netherlands. The full list of the proposed distribution of missions to 52 non-career ambassadors are as follows: 1. Folakemi Akinyele, Oyo, Manila Philippines 2. Mohammed Dansanta, Katstina, Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates 3. Faruk malami yaba, Sokoto, Amman Jordan 4. Opunimi Akinkugbe, Ondo, Athens Greece 5. Adamu Mammani Hassan, Taraba , Hanai Vietnam 6. Baba Ahmed Jiddm, Borno, Beijing China 7. Goni Modu Zanna, Yobe , Beirut Lebanon 8. Yusuf Yugger , Bauchi , Berlin Germany 9. Baba Modaga, Bauchi, Bern Switzerland 10. John James Akwa Ibom, Guinea Bissau 11. Ahmed Mabarti Kaduna, Brazil 12. Deborah S Kiya, Kaduna, Congo 13. Philip K , Bayelsa, Buenos Aires Argentina 14. Safiya Ahmed , Kano, Bucharest 15. Modupe Irele, Lagos , Budapest Hungary 16. Ijeoma Chinogerem , Imo, Dublin, Ireland 17. Olorundare Aweniyi, Kogi, Caracas Venezuela 18. Hamisu Umar , Kano, Tanzania 19. C.O Ugwu, Enugu, Warsaw Poland 20. John Henry, Nasarawa, Free Town Sierra Leone 21. Oma Djebah, Delta, Bangkok Thailand 22. Jazull Imarp Galadima, Kano, Hawally Kuwait 23. Abioye Bello, Kwara, Pakistan 24. Adesina Alege, Oyo, Kiev, Ukraine 25. Maureen Yamuno, Rivers, Kingston Jamaica 26. Omar Sulaiman, Adamawa, Kinshasa DRC 27. Hajara Ibrahim, Gombe, Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 28. Zahra Omar, Kwara, Lilongwe, Malawi 29. Julius Adesina, Oyo, Togo 30. Sarafa Tunji Isola, Ogun, London UK 31. Monique Ekpeng, Cross River, Angola 32. Ominiyi Eze, Ebonyi, Zambia 33. Eniola Ajayi, Ekiti, Netherlands 34. Yama Musa, Edo, Mozambique 35. Bello Adejare, Osun, Mexico 36. Abdullahi Sheku, Plateau, Moscow Russia 37. Elijah Onyeagba, Anambra, Burundi 38. Tijani Mohammed, Kebbi, New York USA 39. Adeyinka Asekan, Ogun, Ottawa, Canada 40. Ademola Seriki, Lagos, Madrid, Spain 41. Abubakar Ibrahim, Bauchi, Trinidad and Tobago 42. Kevin Peter, Adamawa, Prague , Czech Republic 43.Haruna Mamta, Niger, Pretoria South Africa 44. Al-Bishir Al-Hussain, Borno, Rabat Morocco 45. Yahya Lawal, Katsina, Riyadh Saudi Arabia 46. Ali Magashi, Jigawa, South Korea 47. Kayode Laro, Kwara, Paris, France 48. Paul Oga Adikwa, Benue, the Vatican, Italy 49. Abubakar Marihi, Zamfara, Tokyo Japan 50. Uzoma Emenike, Abia, Washington DC, USA 51. Tarzoor Terhemen, Benue, Windhoek Namibia 52. Yusuf Yumesan, Yobe, Kenya President Muhammadu Buhari had last year nominated the ambassadors for clearance by the Senate, a task undertaken by the upper legislative chambers which confirmed the nominees in July 2020.