By Hammed Shittu Operatives of the Kwara State Police Command yesterday paraded two Fulani herdsmen over their alleged involvement in the 2019 abduction of four Turkish nationals in Gbugbu village in Edu Local Government Area of the state. The two suspects were also paraded with their two AK 47 rifle used during the operation. Parading the suspects in Ilorin, the state Police Commissioner, Mr. Mohammed Lawal Bagega, said: “Four of the kidnappers were arrested with one AK47 in July 2019, however, the victims were rescued alive without paying any ransom.” Bagega said: “However, two suspects were at large. Since then, the state police command has been in search for the fleeing suspects. “Actionable intelligence, however, indicated that the suspects were planning to carry out another operation, and my operatives arrested them. “During investigation, the suspects confessed to be the members of the kidnap syndicate that abducted the four Turkish citizens. “The suspects also confessed to have participated in several other kidnaps, especially at the Enugu/Abakiliki axis of the country.” The state police commissioner, however, said: “Investigation is still ongoing to arrest other syndicate members who are at large, and recover their operational weapons, as these suspects would soon appear in court.” Bagega disclosed that the command also paraded organiser of a naked party in Ilorin. He said: “Following intelligence on the criminal activities of one Akinsola Babatunde also known as Mr. White, residing in Achimugun Street, GRA, Ilorin, and his cohorts who are into strip and naked party in lounges, club houses, service apartments among others in Ilorin metropolis and its environ, the state police have arrested and paraded them. “Operatives of the state intelligence bureau attached to the state police command carried out a sting operation involving tactical undercover and maneuver, and arrested Mr. White, who had advertised for a strip party in Ilorin on social media, and successfully organised a party in a service apartment in Jacob street, behind GRA Shoprite Ilorin. “The immoral and illegal act of Mr. White and his accomplices clearly contradicted the COVID-19 protocol and equally promotes crime and criminality in the state. “Efforts are ongoing to arrest the fleeing members of the gang, and those nabbed will be charged to court as soon as the investigation is completed.”