By Hammed Shittu The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Kwara State has arrested 29 Hausa youths who allegedly migrated from other Northern states to Kwara State for farming without any known address. Also, Oodua Peoples Congress, New Era has raised alarm over suspicious movement of cattle herders into some Yoruba-speaking areas of the state, stressing that they have eventually out-numbered the inhabitants. The migration of the youths from the other parts of the north who reportedly came for farming was particularly suspicious because this is not farming season and they don’t have any known place they were going. The NSCDC however urged residents to be vigilant and report any strange and suspicious persons in the state to the appropriate authorities. This is contained in a statement issued by the Spokesperson of NSCDC, Mr. Olasunkanmi Ayen last night in Ilorin and made available to journalists. Ayeni said that some cutlasses were recovered from the suspects, adding that they were being interrogated by the officers of the Command. NSCDC said, “Today, officers of Nigeria Security and civil defence corps Kwara State Command picked some persons suspected to have migrated to the state from the northern part of the country. “They were all picked around Amoyo town in Kwara State. As at the time of writing this report, none of these suspects has any known resident here in kwara. “The suspects claimed that they came into the state for farming but their claim is in doubt because this is not a farming season. Some cutlasses were found on them but they claimed that those cutlasses are meant for farming. “While the investigation is still going on, the state Commandant Ayinla Iskil Makinde urges the people to be more vigilant and report any strange movement or persons around them to the security agents”, the statement said. In a related development, Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) New Era, has raised alarm over influx of herdsmen into territories in Kwara in suspicious manner, saying that it may seem a time bomb if not addressed quickly. OPC in a statement by the Kwara State Coordinator, Comrade Bayo Fabiyi in Ilorin said that “his men stationed all over the state gave report about the suspicious movement of cattle herders into some Yoruba speaking areas of Kwara State and that they have eventually out-numbered the inhabitants.” He said that the Seriki and his men chased away from Igangan and other areas in Oyo State have found their way into Kwara as he reliably gathered, adding that “Settlements like Esie, Arandun, Omido, Agbamu, Oro Ago, Amori, Oke Ode, Buhari, Igbaja up till Share town, headquarter of Ifelodun local government area have been overwhelmed by the influx of these herders and that most of them are arms carrying herders, making it dangerous and suspicious.”