Introduction Recently, I took a look into this vexed issue and I want to reiterate again and again that within the precincts of the Nigerian 1999 Constitution, as altered, it is an expensive tale for the Attorney- General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami to assume that the National Assembly cannot summon the President. Not only can the National Assembly summon the President, an ordinary committee of either the Senate or House of Representatives is empowered by law to summon the President. Today, we shall conclude same, in our discourse. The Challenge Continues The Senate Wades In Former Senate Leader, Mohammed Ali Ndume, had contributed to a debate of the NASS at plenary session on insecurity, by saying troops lack modern arms and were hardly provided with support. He said people in Borno State were paying ransom to Boko Haram before being allowed to go to their farms, or move around in their villages. Indeed, Boko Haram are said to have audaciously mounted checkpoints and road blocks in most LGAs, collecting tolls and levies. Can you believe that? Trust Ndume. He shot from all cylinders, when he called for the hiring of mercenaries. Even President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, was blunt for once, even against his appointers. He shocked them by warning that, excesses will no longer be tolerated. He said the resolutions of the Senate must be implemented by the Executive. The Church Two clerics, Adewale Giwa and Pastor Ebenezer Ologunowa told President Buhari point blank to resign, if he cannot guarantee security of lives of Nigerians. The Mosque The Sultan of Sokoto, tested General (rtd.), His Eminience Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, twice within one week, lamented, the dire insecurity situation of the country, and warned the government to stop paying lip service to it. He described the insecurity-ravaged North as the worst place to live in Nigeria. He even called for specialist prayers, five times daily. He noted that bandits now rule some communities, and set rules that must be obeyed. The Sultan noted the paradox of the common man is “now caught in between two contending phenomena. When he goes to the farm, he gets killed, and when he stays at home, he dies of hunger”. He urged the Buhari government to go beyond mere lip service and the traditional condemnation, and do something concrete. The Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) obviously alarmed, later resolved to meet Buhari, contending that the military is overstretched. The Government – As Usual But, trust the Buhari government. Ever incorrigible; it sets its exams, marks them, and awards marks to itself. It blames everyone and everything, but itself. Thus, in a swift reaction on Arise TV, Presidency spokesman, Garba Shehu, said sacking the Service Chiefs was not the solution to the security challenges. Oh, really? Even after they have since outlived their welcome and usefulness? Northern Elders Garba Shehu must be alone, on a frolic of his own. This is because concerned stakeholders from the Northern States have warned that there may not be an end in sight, if the current Service Chiefs remained in the saddle. Specifically, they called on President Buhari to replace all of them without further delay, to remediate the worsening security situation in the country, especially in the North. But, who is to blame, when Muhammadu Buhari cannot see beyond his nepotistic enclave to rejig his security architecture? Now, read the following by an avid reader who exposed the dangers of nepotism, sectionalism, favouritism and tribalism in appointing people from only ones section of the country, a most horrific scenario in a pluralistic, multi-ethnic, multi-linguistic and multi-religious country like Nigeria. This is how he put it. “Insecurity in Nigeria: Who is to Blame? President Muhammadu Buhari (Katsina); Senate President: Ahmad Lawan (Yobe); Deputy Speaker: Ahmed Idris (Plateau); Defence Minister: Bashir Salihi Magashi (Kano); Chief of Army Staff: Major-General Tukur Yusuf Buratai (Borno); Chief of Air Staff: Sadique Abubakar (Bauchi); National Security Adviser: Babagana Monguno (rtd.) (Borno); Director-General of DSS: Yusuf Magaji Bichi (Kano); Minister of Police Affairs: Mohammed Maigari Dingyadi (Sokoto); IGP: Mohammed Adamu (Nasarawa); Controller-General of Customs: Hamid Ali (Bauchi); Commandant-General NSCDC: Abdullahi Gana Muhammad (Niger); Director NIA: Ahmad Rufa’I Abubakar (Katsina); Controller-General of Prisons: Aloh Ja’afaru Ahmed (Katsina), SGF: Boss Gidahyelda Mustapha (Adamawa); Chief of Staff: Ibrahim Agboola Gambari (Kwara)”. “Chairmen of Senate Committees Army: Ali Ndume, (Borno); Air Force: Bala Ibn Na’Allah, (Kebbi); Defence: Aliyu Wamakko, (Sokoto); National Security and Intelligence: Abdullahi Gobir, (Sokoto); Police Affairs: Dauda Jika, Abubakar Tambuwal (Bauchi). Chairmen of House of Representatives Committees Army: Hon. Abdurazak Namdas (Adamawa); National Security and Intelligence: Hon. Sha’aban Sharada, (Kano); Navy: Hon Gagdi Yusuf (Plateau); Police Affairs: Hon. Kumo Bello (Gombe)”. So, who is to blame? That is the big question. Nigerians, do you know?