*Accuses Buhari’s govt of destroying legitimate businesses Chuks Okocha in Abuja Former vice president and the presidential candidate of the PDP in the last general election, Atiku Abubakar, has explained why he sold his shares in Intels and redirecting his businesses through reinvestments. In a statement by his media aide, Paul Ibe, the former vice president accused the President Muhammadu Buhari government of destroying businesses that were out to create jobs for the teeming unemployed Nigerians. He said in a terse statement that there should be a difference between politics and business. Atiku confirmed he had sold his shares in Intels and redirected his investment to other sectors of the economy for returns and creation of jobs. The statement from Atiku’s media aide reads, “Co-founder of Integrated Logistics Services Nigeria Limited (Intels), Atiku Abubakar, has been selling his shares in Intels over the years. “It assumed greater urgency in the last last five years, because this Government has been preoccupied with destroying a legitimate business that was employing thousands of Nigerians because of politics. “There should be a marked difference between Politics and Business. “Yes, he has sold his shares in Intels and redirected his investment to other sectors of the economy for returns and creation of jobs.” THISDAY had reported that Atiku had divested from Integrated Logistic Services (Intels) Nigeria Limited, the country’s largest logistics company that provides comprehensive integrated services for the nation’s oil and gas industry. The reported had noted that the former gice president exited the company with his family as at December last year through a series of transactions executed by his family Guernsey Trust, in deals that began in December 2018 and concluded last year. Atiku was said to have sold his shares in Intels to Orleal Investment Group, the parents company of Intels, for various amounts totalling over $100 million in the deal that spanned two years.