Michael Olugbode in Damaturu The rising cases of rape and sexual violence have unsettled the Yobe State Police Command, recording fresh incidents among girls between 11 and 13 years. This was revealed in a statement the Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Dungus Abdulkareem, an Assistant Superintendent of Police saying rape cases have witnessed a slight increase in December, last year. The statement read in part: “In its efforts to curb crime and criminality in the state, it has been observed that rape cases recorded a slight increase. “In the last month of year 2020, the police command recorded more than nine cases of rape in different police divisions across the state,” the statement said. It said: “On December 26, 2020 at about 1630hrs detectives from Geidam Divisional Police Headquarters arrested one Mal. Bako Umaru 35 years old of Hausari ward, who lured an 11 year old girl, molested and raped her. “As a result, she suffered serious injuries and lost more than three pints of blood according to the medical facility here in Damaturu. The case is currently under discreet investigation at the State CIID for subsequent prosecution. “Similarly, on December 25, 2020 at about 1100hrs detectives from Yindiski Divisional Police Headquarters apprehended one Musa Mohammed 25 years old, Mohammed Dahiru 27 years old and one Adamu Saidu 46 years old all of Potiskum Local Government Area. “The trio were arrested having gang-raped a 13-year old girl. “In another development, on November 26, 2020 at about 1300hrs one Mohammed Alhaji Jagere 27 years old was apprehended by Gashua Divisional Police Headquarters for intruding into a house with the intent to rob the inhabitants but rather, the culprit raped a nursing mother who was recuperating from childbirth.” It, however, said: “As rape cases seem to be taking a new dimension in the State, Yobe Sate Police Command has equally committed more resources in the fight against such heinous crimes and this cannot be achieved without the support and cooperation of the communities.”