By Nosa Alekhuogie Spectranet 4G LTE has been adjudged the best 4G LTE Internet Service Provider of the year by Communications Week, Organisers of the Beacon of ICT (BoICT) 2020 awards ceremony. The award is coming three weeks after Spectranet was voted the best 4G LTE Internet Service Provider of the year and Consumer-Friendly Internet service provider of the year respectively by Nigeria Technology Awards. The event, which was held in Lagos under strict observation of the COVID 19 rules and regulations, had key players of the Information and Communications Telecommunications (ICT) industry in attendance. Managing Director of Mobile Software Solution, Mr. Chris Uwaje, was the chairman of the event, while Co-founder and Chief Operating Officer of Digital Encode Limited, Obadare Peter Adewale, delivered the keynote address on Cybersecurity and its role in Nigeria Economy. Presenting the best 4G LTE award to Spectranet, Rudman said: “A close observation of Spectranet 4G LTE brand in the industry showed clearly the growth of the brand in the deployment of its technology. Spectranet 4G LTE is truly deserving of such an award based on its spread and growth over the years.” The convener of the award and founder of Nigeria Communications Week, Mr. Ken Nwogbo in his welcome remarks said it was a celebration of brands based on the theme of the event “Honours to Deserving Achievers”. He commended Spectranet 4G LTE for consistency and doggedness in ensuring that consumers continue to enjoy quality 4G Internet Services. Commenting on the awards, the Chief Executive Officer of Spectranet, Mr. Ajay Awasthi, thanked the organisers for consistently recognising the contributions of Spectranet 4G LTE in the country’s technology space. He said: “We appreciate the recognition today, we have made the promise to our subscribers that they will remain first on our list of priorities. We will continue to up the bar of Internet Service delivery as a pioneer and reputable leader in 4G LTE.” He added that Spectranet 4G LTE in partnership with the subscribers, would continue to strive to deliver the very best in internet services domain, through cutting edge technologies like 4GLTE, FTTx and WTTx. We will always listen and respond quickly to the changing requirements of our customers, Awasthi said.