Ugo Aliogo in this report writes on Todd Cahill tips for mental health In today’s world, the place of mental health has never been more in the limelight. It is widely known that thought processes will invariably have an effect on how things play out, Todd Cahill knows this detail intently and it is why he has set a company, InsideOUT, to teach people how to let their mental space inspire success. “We recently launched the InsideOUT Institute with the expressed purpose of teaching and equipping others to Discover who they are, release their emotional baggage with our energy healing practitioners and leadership coaches, create massive breakthroughs in their life, and step into their full power. No one is doing this in this capacity and on a global scale like us,” he explained. Cahill has the credentials to back his methods having made over $2 million before he turning 30, and building a team of over 100,000 people in Network Marketing. His energy has attracted a loyal following having shared the stages with world-renowned motivational coaches, authors, and mentors in the years since. For Cahill, it is all a question of setting one’s mind on a series of positives that you hope to achieve. “I have been homeless, I have been arrested, I have been broke, I have gone through a divorce, I have gone through 2 IRS audits. I had to start my business without any support and no home, and I have been rejected thousands of times,” he disclosed about himself. According to the entrepreneur, what has set him apart from other is his refusal to give in, instead letting his experiences serve as a launch board for more trials. “I am a man of action,” he hinted. “I had nothing when I started but I learned how to become really resourceful and ask for help. I am a good leader and communicator but I am always hungry to learn, to keep growing and to improve. I have a growth mindset and discipline myself every day to live in the moment and do what I know I am called to do.” It all ties into the goal for InsideOUT: “Through this proven system and our program’s transformational leadership coaching, we have helped and are guiding many more new coaches to create a six-figure income from home by launching and building their own coaching businesses/practitioners and their personal brands to make them stand out with their unique message.”