By Okon Bassey The National Association of Seadogs (NAS) also known as Pyrates Confraternity has distributed 100 uniforms and writing materials to Government Primary School Ikot Ndua Iman/Ikot Nkan in Onna local government area of Akwa Ibom State. Making the donation, recently, the President of the association, Eket chapter, Mr. Paul Ike said the gesture was in commemoration of the International Day of Education, in Onna. He said small, medium and large uniforms and writing materials such as exercise books, biros, rulers, erasers and sharpener were distributed to the pupils of the school. Ike noted that education was key to sustainable development and encouraged the pupils to be of good behaviour to their parents and their teachers. “We want to identify with you on this year’s International Day of Education and to encourage you to take your education seriously. “Don’t play with your education, ensure you read your books, listen to your teachers and parents because you are the leaders of tomorrow,” he said. The president lamented that 70 per cent of the pupils of the school, do not have uniforms while some are wearing torn uniforms. “For schools we have not visited, we will visit them in subsequent edition as we encourage schools to take their education seriously. “Our assistance cut across, primary, secondary and tertiary institutions, given this gesture doesn’t end with providing school uniforms, writing materials, but we also go to some schools and work on infrastructure that has dilapidated,” Ike said. He noted that the initiative was the association’s little way of contributing to the development of the economy, adding that education was very important to any nation. Responding on behalf of the teachers, Mr. Etukudoh Essien expressed appreciation to the association, saying that the benevolence and love towards the pupils of the government primary was fantastic. “Your benevolence is so much that we really appreciate it because so many of these pupils, their parents can not afford their uniforms but your kind gesture and love to the pupils was appreciated,” Essien said.
He appealed to NAS to do more especially to those who have not benefitted from their gesture. “Please consider those who have not benefitted in your gesture to ensure that all the pupils were carried along in your next coming.”