By Emmanuel Ugwu Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, yesterday inaugurated multiple road projects in the commercial city of Aba, warning that it’s a crime against the people in the state for his government to build low quality roads that would not be durable. Speaking at the inauguration of Osusu Road in Aba, Ikpeazu noted that he had made it a point of duty to build high quality roads with minimum life span of 30 years. He stated that most of the roads in Aba had been abandoned for more than 25 years, hence, it was imperative to employ rigid and appropriate technology in the rehabilitation of the roads that would benefit next generations. “It is criminal offence on our part if we fail to deliver infrastructure that will not outlive our tenure,” he said. Ikpeazu stated that the reason Aba has suffered massive infrastructural decay over the years was that the roads were in the past built without regard to high standard. The governor declared that the era of poor road projects was gone in Aba and the state in general, adding that he would continue to ensure that all the projects he would leave behind would last long after his tenure. Ikpeazu, who has often been criticised for slow pace of work, vowed that he would continue “to shame” his critics by building projects of high quality. The 18 kilometre road networks were inaugurated by the Apostolic Nuncio (head of diplomatic missions to Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, St Lucia, St Vincent), Most Rev Fortunatus Nwachukwu. The new roads are Osusu road, Ebenma road, Egege and Ama Ohafia cluster of roads in Aba North, while Ohaukwu, Milverton and Ojike cluster of roads were also inaugurated in Aba South. The governor noted that the roads are of strategic economic importance to Aba residents and the state in general as they expand access to the famous Ariaria international market in Aba. Meanwhile, the organised private sector and the trading community as well as the residents of the commercial city have lauded the governor for his “painstaking efforts in regeneration and reclamation of Aba roads.” The President of Aba Chamber of Commerce, Agriculture, Mines and Agriculture (ACCIMA), Mr. Lawrence Obete, said the urban renewal mission of Ikpeazu in Aba was already evident. In his remarks the President of Abia State Market Traders Association (ASMATA), Lucky Akubueze, said the traders were grateful to the state governor for opening up road networks around Ariaria international market.