• Releases information linking China to disease outbreak
• Seeks transparent investigation of virus’ origin Tobi Soniyi United States’ Secretary of State, Michael R. Pompeo, said the US would continue to call for a transparent and thorough investigation into the origin of COVID-19. He accused China of not being transparent with investigations on the origin of the disease. However, China has continued to deny any wrongdoing. The country said it did its best to alert the world and refused to accept claim that the virus originated from China. A statement issued early morning Saturday by the US’ Department of State declared that understanding the origin of this pandemic is essential for global public health, economic recovery, and international security. He said the US had repeatedly called for a transparent and thorough investigation into the origin of COVID-19. Pompeo said: “To assist the vital work of the World Health Organization (WHO) investigative team that arrived in China this week, the United States government is today sharing new information concerning the activities inside China’s government laboratories in 2019. “In particular, we urge the WHO to press the government of China to address the following: “Illnesses at the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV): The United States government has reason to believe that several researchers inside the WIV became sick in autumn 2019, before the first identified case of the outbreak, with symptoms consistent with both COVID-19 and common seasonal illnesses. “This raises questions about the credibility of WIV senior researcher Shi Zhengli’s public claim that there was ‘zero infection’ among the WIV’s staff and students of SARS-CoV-2 or SARS-related viruses. “WIV Research on ‘RaTG13’ and ‘gain of function’: Starting in at least 2016, WIV researchers studied RaTG13, the bat coronavirus identified by the WIV in January 2020 as its closest sample to SARS-CoV-2 (96.2% similar). “Since the outbreak, the WIV has not been transparent nor consistent about its work with RaTG13 or other similar viruses, including possible ‘gain of function’ experiments to enhance transmissibility or lethality. “Secret WIV Links to Military Research: Despite the WIV presenting itself as a civilian institution, the WIV has collaborated on publications and secret projects with China’s military. The WIV has engaged in classified research, including laboratory animal experiments, on behalf of the Chinese military since at least 2017.” The US insisted that the COVID-19 pandemic was avoidable. It said that as a responsible country, China ought to have invited world health investigators to Wuhan within days of the outbreak. The US stated that China instead refused offers of help – including from the United States – and punished brave Chinese doctors, scientists, and journalists who tried to alert the world to the dangers of the virus. It said: “Beijing continues today to withhold vital information that scientists need to protect the world from this deadly virus, and the next one. “The United States reiterates the importance of unfettered access to virus samples, lab records and personnel, eyewitnesses, and whistleblowers to ensure the credibility of the WHO’s final report. “Until the CCP allows a full and thorough accounting of what happened in Wuhan, it is only a matter of time until China births another pandemic and inflicts it on the Chinese people, and the world.” Not less than 2 million people have died worldwide from complications arising from Covid-19 infection. *Nigeria has recorded 107,345 infections and 1,413 deaths resulting from complications from Covid-19 infection.