*Demand N10m ransom James Sowole in Akure Gunmen, on Tuesday, kidnapped a couple and one other person in two separate incidents at Uso community in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State A source disclosed that the couple who were travelling along Owo-Akure Highway with their three children, were abducted by gunmen, who left the children by the roadside with their parent’s car. The source added after the couple were led into the bush, the children that were left stranded beside their parent’s locked car, went to the police station in the town and reported the matter. In the second incident, a resident of Uso community, Olatunbosun Johnson, was kidnapped in a farm within the community. it was gathered that Johnson had gone to the farm along with four other person, in search of sand to fill the foundation of a building, when the gunmen struck. A family source said while three of the men that went to the farm escaped, Johnson and one of the labourers, were unlucky as the gunmen held them hostage. The source, added that the abductors later released the labourers, who happened to be a Hausa man. He disclosed that the incident was reported to the police while a team of Amotekun Corps, Police and the military combed the forest in search of the victims. He disclosed that one Muhammed Aliu was arrested in the bush and handed over to the police who have been investigating the suspect. He said “the Hausa man was released and the kidnappers demanded N5m as ransom from the family but the kidnappers made a u- turn very late on Tuesday evening after the family said the N5m is ready and raised the ransom to N10m. “We pleaded with them but they remained adamant, threatened to kill the young man if the family failed to produce N10m ransom within 24 hours.” Confirming the development, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Mr. Tee Leo Ikoro, said men from the state police command had been combing the area to ensure the release of the victims. He confirmed that the couple were abducted on Tuesday while their abductors left their children behind adding that the state command swung into action immediately the kidnap case was reported. He also said the police and other sister agencies had been combing the forest to secure the release of victims.