A seven-member board to oversee the affairs of Ibom Hotel and Golf Resort has been inaugurated with Mr. Udeme Ufot MFR as Chairman. According to a statement, inaugurating the board on behalf of the State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, recently, the Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, charged members of the board to ensure that the hotel meets the aspirations of the government and people of Akwa Ibom State in terms of optimal performance and revenue generation. He stressed the need for the board to work in synergy with management for optimal productivity of the hotel. He also urged the board members not to attempt to usurp the functions of the management. Ekuwem, expressed confidence that members of the board would bring their wealth of experience to bear in the discharge of their duties by providing effective guidance and leadership to management towards ensuring quality services that will attract patronage and generate revenue for the state. “There could be no better choice of Chairman for the hotel than Udeme Ufot who is a distinguished professional and businessman, recognised nationally and internationally as a marketing communications professional of repute. “He brings to the assignment a triple value of passion for the hotel, understanding of the industry and professional marketing savvy. He would also be the perfect bridge between the hotel management and the state government. The Governor therefore expects the very best from him,” the SSG stated. Icon Hotels and Resorts Nigeria, the Nigerian subsidiary of Icon Hotel Group Africa (IHGA), a pan-African hospitality giant was recently appointed to turn around the fortunes of the hotel. Responding on behalf of the board members, Ufot expressed appreciation to Emmanuel for the privilege to serve the state, and the confidence reposed in him and the members of the board. He pledged to make the facility the most attractive destination in West Africa for meetings, incentives, conferences and entertainment, stressing that the facility was one of a kind in West Africa. “Let me thank His Excellency the Governor for the honor and privilege given to us to superintend over this prime asset of Akwa Ibom people. “It is truly a unique opportunity and a great call to duty. One of the things I want to promise His Excellency is that this board will ensure that this common asset of Akwa Ibom people becomes the most attractive business and leisure destination in West Africa, and indeed Africa. That is the challenge we would set for ourselves. “The Ibom Hotel and Golf Resort has tremendous potential and it will be our mandate to fully realise that potential,” Ufot stated. He further assured that members of the board would work assiduously to align with the government’s economic objectives in line with Governor Udom Emmanuel’s Completion Agenda. He also assured that the board would align with governments economic aspirations of increasing the internally generated revenue (IGR) of the state. The Icon Hotels Africa roup is reputed to be one of the fastest growing end-to-end hospitality service providers on the African continent, offering high level consultancy on different aspects of hospitality and management of projects from foundation to completion. In just nine years of existence, the hotel group has become an industry leader with demonstrable expertise in the conceptualization, actualization and management of world-class hospitality projects in different parts of Africa. With a strong footing in East Africa where its name strongly resonates in the hospitality industry, IHGA has in recent times made inroads into the West African sub-region with Nigeria and now fast establishing presence in Benin Republic, Senegal and Cameroon