By Laleye Dipo Gunmen weekend attacked some communities in Munya and Paikoro Local Government Areas of Niger State, killing no fewer than three people and injuring about 15 others. One of those killed in Kaffinkoro town was described as Francis Daniel, who operated a computer centre in the town, and was said to have been hit by a bullet as he attempted to escape into the bush, while the two others were men of the local security outfit. The bandits also kidnapped 20 people, mostly women. The communities raided in Paikoro Local Government Area were given as Beni, old and new Dalolo, Aboloso, Ishau and Amale, while those invaded at Munya LGA were Gwari Nyayi, Kabiri and Biri. It was learnt that the bandits stormed the communities with about 50 motorcycles The raids, which started on Saturday evening, according to reports, continued into the early hours of Sunday during which several foodstuff were stolen by the bandits. The District Head of Beni, Alhaji Jafaru Umar Sarki, who confirmed the invasion in a telephone conversation, said the operation started Saturday evening when the armed men, numbering about 200, and on over 50 motorcycles stormed the communities in three groups. According to Sarki, the Saturday operation lasted for one hour before the bandits left with sacks of food items and other goods looted from shops and houses in the town. He said on Sunday morning, the bandits returned, moved from one community to another targeting only food stuffs and provisions from shops. The district head said the Sunday raid started around 9:00am and lasted for over three hours, adding that all efforts to get assistance from security operatives were abortive. According to Sarki, “For the three hours the Sunday operation lasted, one helicopter owned by one of the security agencies in the country was busy hovering round the communities, while the bandits were operating on the ground.” Sarki also said that the Divisional Police Officer in the area, who was alerted, said he was handicapped and could not address the distress calls because their operational vehicles had no fuel. The traditional ruler stated that the women abducted were made to carry the looted food items to where they will be loaded into their get away vehicles. The Police Public Relations Officer of the state Police Command, ASP Wasiu Abiodun, could not be reached for comments.