The two most successful English teams will go head-to-head tomorrow in the Premier League for top of the table encounter. While the Reds have not lost at home in three years, the Red Devils away record this season has been unprecedented, winning seven in eight games. A win for the Jurgen Klopp’s side would return the defending champions to the top of the log, but Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side would establish a six-point lead over their bitter rivals with a win Liverpool are set to host arch-rivals Manchester United at Anfield on Sunday for an exciting top-of-the-table clash in the English Premier League.
Liverpool come into this game on the back of a 1-0 loss to Southampton in their most recent Premier League game. Manchester United, on the other hand, beat Burnley on Wednesday to ensure a top spot.
United will be looking to deal a huge blow to Klopp’s side, knowing they could be six points ahead of the current Premier League champions with a victory at Anfield. But there are few more formidable venues than Liverpool’s home ground, where they are unbeaten since April 2017 – a club-record run of 66 consecutive matches without defeat.
Since the start of the 2018-19 season, Liverpool have won 42 of 46 home league games including a stunning 24 straight between February 2019 and July 2020. Crystal Palace were the last away team to be victorious against the Reds in the league and since then United have lost twice and drawn twice, being downed 3-1 and 2-0 in their two most recent meetings on Merseyside. But Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men come into this latest showdown with the confidence and rhythm that they didn’t have for either of those two games, having ended the day top of the table for the first time since 2013.
And with this weekend’s trip to Liverpool, United can perhaps rubber-stamp their status as the best team away from home in the Premier League. Since their last match at Anfield in January last year, United are 15 unbeaten in top-flight away games and racked up 10 straight wins between June and December.
United also managed to score at least twice in every game in that 10-match winning streak, the best goalscoring run any team has managed since the title-winning Spurs team of 1960. It would no doubt be a scintillating encounter as the team with the best home record welcome a side with the best away record.
Meanwhile, Chelsea make the short trip to Craven Cottage to take on Fulham this evening, looking to start a winning run after recent poor form. The Blues bounced back with a more convincing 4-0 victory over Morecambe in the FA Cup last weekend, and will be looking to use this momentum to bounce back in the league and mount a charge towards the top end of the table. However, Fulham go into the fixture unbeaten in six in all competitions and off the back of an impressive 1-1 draw away at Tottenham on Wednesday night.
The Blues got back to winning ways by dispatching League Two side Morecambe last week, but are now in desperate need of igniting a winning run in the Premier League with 10 points separating them and current leaders, Manchester United. Now, with many players back fit and eager to impress, the competition for places will be a welcome problem for Frank Lampard, who will be keen to rotate and keep players fit amid a busy schedule.
Another interesting encounter will see Leicester City that are looking to keep their place in the top four intact host an impressive Southampton at the King Power Stadium tonight. Leicester City are coming off an impressive 4-0 win against Stoke City in the FA Cup but Southampton are relatively better rested and will be looking to kick on from where they left off last week where they defeated Liverpool at the St. Mary’s.
Leicester City are on a five-match unbeaten streak and are just a point behind second-placed Liverpool on the table. However, they cannot afford to slip as both Everton and Tottenham Hotspur are right behind them.
Southampton’s only loss in their last seven games came against Manchester City and Ralph Hassenhuttl’s side have been in good form of late. The Saints will be well wary of the fact that Leicester have struggled at home this season and they have also won on their last two trips to the King Power Stadium.
This is a great chance for either side to build on their recent runs and gain some momentum as the fight for a Champions League berth intensifies.