Most leagues in Europe are at the halfway point and it is that period when cup competitions check in. Across England, Italy, Germany and even Turkey we will have cup competitions take center stage in the coming week as bigwigs get into the fray. In England, it is time for the third round of the FA Cup, this is when most of the Premier League sides join in after lower tier sides move it from the preliminary rounds. Among the matches lined up for the third round, three all Premier League clashes are set to take place. Holders Arsenal start the defence with a home match against Newcastle United but before the two sides take to the pitch there will be two other games featuring top flight sides. The very first game will see Wolverhampton Wanderers take on Crystal Palace then Aston Villa and Liverpool will face off in a repeat of the nine-goal thriller earlier in the season. A total of 64 teams are taking part in this weekend’s action in the FA Cup and with the Covid-19 protocols in place as well, it is a logistical nightmare for the organizers with teams required to be tested 72 hours before their games. In Italy, the Coppa Italia will also be taking center stage with the competition entering the Round of 16. Serie A clubs dominate the list of sides that have qualified for this stage; only Empoli and SPAL are non Serie A sides. Serie A league leaders AC Milan will open the Round of 16 action with a game against fellow top flight side, Torino on Tuesday 12th January. Holders Napoli, who dislodged Juventus in last season’s competition will be up against Serie B side Empoli as the other Serie B side, SPAL will be facing off against Sassuolo. Finalists in last season’s edition, Juventus, will be taking on Genoa. In Germany two Round 2 matches in the DFB Pokal are lined up to wrap up that stage of the competition which started much earlier in the season as is the tradition in the country. An all top -light teams clash pitting Bayer Leverkusen and Eintracht Frankfurt will start it off then the very last of the round will have Holstein Kiel hosting holders Bayern Munich. Ahead of the final two matches of the DFB Pokal though, there’s some Bundesliga action to keep up with as the league enters the 15th round. Bayern Munich will be the first in action as they play away to Borussia Monchengladbach in one of the top games of the round. A number of incentives that include bonuses are lined up for the league and more, with top tips and previews also available on the listed bookmakers. Bet9ja for example has an up to ₦100000 bonus offer upon registration while 1XBET have up to ₦35000 in bonuses. Betwinner offers free bets and Nairabet has a number of promotional offers as well upon registration. Click this link to see all available offers. The Turkish Cup is also set to resume, for the Round of 16 matches, with most of the topflight sides dominating the round. Bursaspor faces Antalyaspor as Sivasspor takes on Adana Demirspor while Yeni Malatyaspor will be up against Galatasaray, all on Tuesday 12th January. In the other matches, Konyaspor will take on Gaziantep FK as Tuzlaspor hosts Istanbul Basaksehir and Besiktas and Rizespor face off on Wednesday. On Thursday Alanyaspor and BB Erzurumspor face off then the final match of the round will see Fenerbahce take on Kasimpasa.