By Obinna Chima Utica Capital Limited, a firm recently licenced by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a Funds and Portfolio Manager has commenced operations. The company is the brainchild of Mr. Ola Belgore, who is the Chief Executive Officer. According to Belgore, Utica Capita was set up to provide value-adding asset and wealth management services to its clients. “Given the low interest rate environment, we have created the Utica Fixed Rate Investment (U-FRI) so as to give you superior interest rates on your money – whether naira or dollars. “For USD investment, we offer you a fixed rate of three per cent per annum on your money. So you don’t have to leave your money idle in dorm account,” Belgore explained, while urging members of the public to take advantage of the offers. Prior to the creation of Utica Capital, Belgore was the Managing Director of Afrinvest Asset Management. Belgore has accumulated several years of diverse experience in stockbroking, asset management, portfolio advisory and business development. His career started in TRW Stockbrokers Limited in 2003 and thereafter moved to Meristem Securities Limited in December, 2006. He co-pioneered the Meristem Wealth Management subsidiary in 2008 where he served as the Head of Wealth Management before his stint as the Coordinator of Meristem Business Associates in 2012 and later the head, Group Business Development, overseeing the business drive of 5 different companies in the financial sector. Belgore graduated from the University of Lagos with a Bsc degree in Microbiology. He also bagged an MBA in International Business from the prestigious Lincoln University, Oakland, California, USA. He is a Chartered Wealth Manager (CWM) and a member of both American Academy of Financial Management (AAFM) and Nigeria Institute of Management (Chartered) NIM. He skilled in Business Development, Marketing, Business and Social Networking and has attended several training programs including the Jeff & O’Brien training on Investment and Portfolio Management.