Western Digital Corporation (WD) is now delivering 4TB portable SSDs across its consumer brand portfolio, designed to give consumers and professionals more space to create. The new drives are built to keep up with today’s high-quality content demands. The four drives now offer gamers, content creators, enthusiasts and creative professionals the performance, durability and greater capacity they need to capture, move and save their files. Senior Vice President and General Manager of Consumer Solutions Products, WD, Jim Welsh, said: “This milestone allows us to deliver a new era of solutions with the capacity and performance our customers have been asking for. Our consumer brand products are used by millions of professionals and consumers around the world, and we continue to drive technology forward to deliver the performance, reliability and leading products they demand.” WD is focused on delivering industry-leading solutions that keep up with the rich content created by consumers and pros alike. Whether using your smartphone to capture family milestones, backing up or expanding your video game library, or in the studio or out in the field creating a feature film, the company’s range of offerings are built to reliably store today’s massive files, Welsh said. ASC, SanDisk Extreme Team member, Sam Nicholson, said: “As a Director of Photography in film and television production, I rely on technology to achieve my creative vision and protect my work. SanDisk® SSDs are a critical asset when I’m out in the field or at the studio working with multiple 12K and 8K cameras. “High-capacity, high-performance SSDs make it easy to reliably manage these files, and the SanDisk Extreme Pro portable SSDs are my go-to drive when I’m shooting on location. With added capacity, I have even more freedom to continue creating amazing content.” WD’s new 4TB portable SSD portfolio offers an unmatched combination of performance and capacity to help fuel today’s content-rich world. The SanDisk Extreme Pro Portable SSD, saves time storing and transferring data with powerful NVMe solid state performance featuring up to 2000MB/s read and up to 2000MB/s write speeds. A forged aluminum chassis acts as a heatsink to deliver higher sustained speeds in a portable form factor. The 4TB SanDisk Extreme Pro Portable SSD is expected to be available later this quarter at select retailers and the Western Digital store at an estimated $749.99. SanDisk Extreme Portable SSD, has solid state performance featuring up to 1050MB/s read and up to 1000MB/s write speeds in a portable, high-capacity drive that’s perfect for creating amazing content or capturing incredible footage. For added durability, the drive features up to two-metre drop protection and IP55 water and dust resistance.