The second wave of COVID-19 pandemic all over the world, no doubt, is spreading fast, killing faster and easily transmittable compared to the first wave. The rate at which many Nigerians are contracting the virus is beyond imagination as numbers of affected persons have increased drastically within a short period. This indicates that people need to continue to take necessary precautions by observing the laid down guidelines to curtail the virus. Statistics from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as of December 17th 2020 had total confirmed cases of 76,206, 67,110 discharged and 1201 deaths, but as of 11th January, 2021, statistics showed that 101, 331 persons have been confirmed, 80, 491 discharged, while the number of deaths has increased to 1361. This means about 30% new cases have been confirmed since the outbreak of the second wave and about 12% confirmed dead. Lagos State in particular has recorded a spike in the number of people testing positive to the virus and this brings the number of cases in the state to 32, 720. So there is need for people to be more cautious in the way they live, interact and socialise with colleagues, families and friends. Many would agree with me that this second wave comes with severe symptoms and if care is not taken, there is tendency to have high number of cases and deaths this period. It’s very disheartening that the resurgence of COVID-19 has claimed lives within the shortest period, including the younger brother of the Lagos State Deputy Governor, Obafemi Hamzat, immediate past Registrar of Joint Universities Preliminary Examinations Board (JUBEB), Duro Ajeyalemi, whose death came less than 72 hours after a former Vice Chancellor of University of Lagos, Prof. Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe died due to the COVID-19 complications. The global pandemic is really ravaging our societies but before it goes beyond control, our government needs to apply strict sanctions to defaulters of COVID-19 protocols of regular hand washing, use of face masks and hand sanitizer and maintaining social distancing in order to curtail the spread of the virus .in the states and country at large. Meanwhile, the rate at which the virus is spreading, government might resolve to declare another lockdown which many Nigerians might not find too comfortable as many are still trying to get over the effect of first experience. The first lockdown had adverse effects on many citizens especially the less-privileged, the vulnerable, and the unemployed youths. Countries like United States of America, Uganda, UK, South Africa, amongst others distributed foods and beverages to their citizens, but the reverse is the case in Nigeria. The palliatives distributed to the aged and vulnerable did not go round. However, if going for the vaccines is the best way to curb the spread of the virus in the country and the world, there is need for government to be careful and examine the vaccines before administering it on citizens so as not to cause unnecessary havoc. Health practitioners should also be well equipped with personal protective materials for prevention. Taylor Temitayo, Oke-mosan, Abeokuta