MultiChoice Nigeria has brought its step up campaign offer to its DStv and GOtv customers this January. The firm revealed the plan in a statement quoting its Chief Customer Officer, Martin Mabutho The firm said the step up campaign offered all active and disconnected DStv Compact, Confam and Yanga customers the opportunity to pay for a package a step above their current package and get a boost to view programming on the next higher package. The statement said customers on GOtvJolli and Jinja could upgrade to enjoy GOtv Max for less at a special discount of N2, 999 instead of N3, 600 per month. It added that all the upgrades “are scheduled to happen within 48 hours and will be available from Thursday, 14 January till Wednesday, 31 March 2021. “Through the step up and Max for Less campaign offers, we are giving our DStv and GOtv customers something to get excited about this January,” said in his statement. Mabutho said: “We started this special offer back in 2019 as a way of giving customers on the lower packages a chance to enjoy quality video entertainment on our higher DStv and GOtv packages for less. “We are pleased with the popularity and acceptance of the offer, so we are making it available once more to both new and existing customers. It promises to be even more exciting as customers who take advantage of this offer will be exposed to even more great entertainment starting this January. “DStv customers on the Yanga package can pay N4,615 for Confam package and then get a boost to view programmes on the next higher package, Compact; while customers on the Confam package can pay N7,900 for Compact and instead view Compact Plus package programming.
“Likewise, Compact customers only pay N12,400 for Compact Plus package and in turn get Premium package worth N18,400 per month.
“January is booked with different exciting programming such as, brand new seasons of exciting shows and drama series on Africa Magic starting with Date My Family S2 premiere on Sunday, January 17 at 6pm on AM Showcase; My Siblings & I S3 on Monday, January 18 at 6:30pm on AM Urban and Unmarried S2 on Wednesday, January 20 at 9pm on AM Showcase.”
Launch of the M-Net Movies 007 James Bond Pop-Up Channel 111 on Friday, January 22 to Monday, January 31 on DStv Premium, Compact Plus and Compact.