By Adedayo Akinwale The Caretaker Extraordinary/Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has revealed that it will soon release a detailed timetable for reconstitution of party leadership at all levels after the completion of party’s membership registration/revalidation exercise. The Chairman of the committee and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni and the Secretary, Senator James AkpanUdoedehe, disclosed this in a statement jointly signed yesterday. The party said already, the process of membership registration/revalidation has commenced, adding that everything was being done to ensure that party membership would be updated regularly, and membership registration would be a continuous exercise. It assured that nobody would be disenfranchised and therefore appealed to all members and leaders at all levels to cooperate with the members of the registration/revalidation teams that will work all over the country to conduct the exercise. The party stated: “Our party’s membership registration/revalidation will be followed by activities for the party’s leadership reconstitution at all levels, from ward, local government, states to national. Ahead of all that, the Caretaker Committee will release a detailed timetable for all activities very soon. “And ahead of the Congresses and National Convention, competent party leaders will be invited to serve in committees to ensure that the mandate of NEC is achieved before June 30, 2021. Our congresses and National Convention will democratic and transparent. Our goal, in line with our founding vision is to return our party to the membership. “As a party, we want to assure all our members that our commitment to lead the process of political change in Nigeria is unwavering. Our ability to constantly strengthen the structures of our party is part of our change credentials. “Other important requirements, which will include the review of our rules and other operational requirements, which are needed to make our party and our elected representatives more accountable to Nigerians will be considered and all the necessary steps required will be taken.” The ruling party in its new year message noted that surviving year 2020 was very difficult for humanity in every part of the world because of Covid-19 pandemic. It added that nations and governments had to shut down — a new normal, with all its adverse consequences on human life became the world reality, stressing that the struggle to save human life from the Covid-19 virus became the order of the day. The APC said unfortunately, many lives were lost, and millions of people suffered as a result of being infected by the virus, but in the end, vaccine has been successfully developed. It said that with the vaccine, all nations of the world can begin to plan for return to normal life, while expressing confidence that President Muhammadu Buhari-led government would take all the necessary measures to return Nigeria back to pre-Covid-19 normal conditions. The ruling party pointed out that it was proud of its elected representatives in government who put Nigeria among countries of the world that successfully control the spread of the virus, but added that the nation must not rest on its oars. The party said everything must be done to improve the capacity of the country’s health institutions to deliver world-class health services to Nigerians. The ruling party recognised that largely on account of difficult economic circumstances occasioned by decline in economic activities, the country’s national security challenges got escalated. It said the APC-led government is taking all the measures necessary to resolve the challenges. It added: “As a party, we are very conscious of the enormity the problem and we are convinced that Nigerians, across all divide, must unite and work together to bring about lasting solutions. Although, very slow in getting Nigerian leaders at all levels, irrespective of our differences to appreciate and accept to work together, we are surely gradually getting there. “If anything, recent events have demonstrated the efficacy of how successful we can be in overcoming our security challenges. We are very assured that under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigeria will come out of all our current challenges stronger and united.” The party further said that its elected representatives in government would continue to do their best and work for justice, peace and unity in every part of Nigeria. The party said this means, it would constantly take steps to rebuild and reorient ourselves to be able to develop the capacity and competence to serve Nigerians