The Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen has expressed optimism that the redeployment of Dr. Mrs. Anthonia Ekpa, as the new Permanent Secretary (PS) to the Ministry, will facilitate harmonisation of efforts to further uplift the establishment. Tallen, who spoke in Abuja, while receiving the PS, stated that the Permanent Secretary’s coming to the Ministry with so much experience and capacity was very encouraging and that together, they would certainly work for the betterment of the Ministry and its numerous stakeholders.
She added that she and the PS will collaborate to ensure that the aspirations of the present government in supporting families and in particular, Women and Children are realised.
She also appreciated the PS for emphasising on synergy among the various offices including those of the Minister, PS and Departments, and assured her of the cooperation of her staff and management while in the ministry.
In order to ensure the Permanent Secretary enjoys full support of the Ministry until she resumes work later in January, the Hon. Minister issued the PS with a letter of authorization for her to act on her behalf.
Ekpa, who is an experienced Civil Servant with years of lectureship and academic publications in gender studies, expressed gratitude to the minister for the warm reception she received in the ministry. While assuring the Minister of her loyalty and commitment to ensure realization of the aspirations of the government and Minister for the sector, told the Minister “I will work with your team and management of the Ministry to develop a Corporate Strategy that would support your Vision and Mission for Women and Children.”
The PS has commenced work, beginning with management meetings, receiving of briefs etc from Directors/Heads of Departments.
It would be recalled that following the redeployment of Permanent Secretaries to various Ministries by the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr. Folashade Yemi-Esan, on 24th December 2020, Dr. Anthonia Ekpa, was assigned to the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs (FMWA).
The handing over ceremony between the out-gone Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Ifeoma. A. Anyanwutaku and Dr. Ekpa, took place at the ministry on Tuesday 5th January, this year.