Mr Paschal Offor has congratulated Mr. Danmallam Mohammed on his Recent Promotion to the Rank Of The Deputy Inspector General of Police. The Founder of Passy Xchange, Mr. Paschal Offor, said this in a statement on Thursday in Anambra State. It described Mohammed Danmallam as a man of impeccable character, saying that his appointment was well deserved. The Passy Xchange Family believes that the appointment is well deserved, considering the personal accomplishments of the man,” Paschal said. It expressed optimism that DIG Danmallam would bring professionalism and true leadership to policing in the country. “We can attest to his solid pedigree and rich experience. He is, arguably, the most qualified serving Police officer in this time to occupy the very sensitive office. Paschal Offor sincerely wishes that the new DIG will harness his experiences from previous offices, at home and abroad, with dexterity to curb crime, ensure peace in the entire country and once again propound the policing principles that will lead Nigerians to believe that police, is their friend.” “We are aware of your passion for justice and truth. We are also aware that you have made considerable deposit into the bank of trust among the rank and file of your officers and we pray that these and other outstanding qualities of yours should come to bear as a guiding light in the discharge of this Herculean and crucial national assignment,”Paschal said. Danmallam who once served as the Enugu state commissioner of police was Promoted by to the Rank Of Deputy Inspector General Of Police December 2020. DIG Mohammed Danmallam established Zone 13 last year and insisted on carrying out his duties professionally, so despite the desperation of certain elements to cause him to deviate from high purpose. “He was here for a brief period, but during this period he was able to show that fairness, justice and fidelity to the letter and spirit of the Nigerian Constitution are the values which guide him and every other police officer”.