Hamid Ayodeji Olam Nigeria Limited has been named the ‘employer of choice in the African region’ for 2020. The company emerged with a strong score during a Human Resources Best Practice survey conducted by Top Employers Institute. The survey conducted by the institute covers 600 people’s development practices across ten topics comprising talent strategy, workforce planning, talent acquisition, onboarding, learning and development, performance management, leadership development, diversity and inclusion, career and succession management and culture. Congratulating recipients of the human resource excellence award, Chief Executive Officer, Top Employers Institute, David Plink said, “Recognising our regional Certified Top Employers 2020 is an extremely proud moment for us all. This level of certification showcases the dedication to the consistent application of HR excellence on a regional level and an impressive commitment to enriching the labor market.” Jaideep Biswas, who doubles as Regional Human Resource Head and Global Business Partner FMCG Business, Olam International, in a statement made available to THISDAY recently noted that the organisation prioritises the implementation of robust people development strategies. “The recognition by the Top Employers Institute demonstrates the effectiveness of our organisation’s strategic approach to our employees’ wellbeing and overall career aspirations,” he added. In the same vein, Talent Acquisition Lead, Halima Akintola stated, “This recognition as an employer of choice in the African region is simply a validation of our commitment to driving a workplace experience that matches the aspiration of our employees. “This is because we focus on enriching the lives of our employees in line with global best practices in all our approaches to talent acquisition, onboarding, learning and strategic implementation of capacity development procedures, career progression plans, compensation and benefits including employee value propositions.” Consequently, Olam joins SAP, Sanofi, DHL, NTT, Orange, Novartis, Takeda, and BAT on a list of over 1,500 organisations that had been certified by the Top Employers Institute over 25 years in 118 countries.