By Charles Ajunwa The Director General of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, has pledged his commitment to partner with the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in the task of uniting Nigeria and bringing sustainable peace and social harmony in the country.
The NCAC boss made this pledge when he received the Director General of National Youths Service Corps, Brigadier-General, Shuaibu Ibrahim in his office.
While unveiling a joint agenda tagged ‘Partnership That Works’, OtunbaRunsewe said that NCAC and NYSC have similar mandate.
He noted that while the NYSC was established in 1973 by General Yakubu Gowon (rtd) regime in pursuance of the policy of Reconciliation, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation, the National Festival for Arts and Culture was established by the same regime to foster national peace, unity and integration using culture.
OtunbaRunsewe further said that while NYSC scheme brings together young Nigerians to serve in states other than their own, NAFEST brings together contingents from the 36 states and FCT to showcase their cultural peculiarities and exchange cultural ideas.
He appealed to all organisations to always accept corp members posted to them and treat with respect as they are in the service to the nation.
The Director General, National Youth Service Corps, Brigadier-General Shuaibu Ibrahim, thanked his counterpart in the arts and culture for accepting to partner with NYSC which Runsewe described as partnership that works. On the issue of spread of COVID-19 in the NYSC camps, the NYSC boss explained that all prospective corps members are screened and tested before being allowed into the camp.
He added that NCDC has its offices in all the orientation camps in the country to take care of any emergency that may occur. He assured parents, guardians and intending corps members will be screened, tested and certified fit before being allowed into the orientation camps.
OtunbaRunsewe appealed to Nigerians to stop stigmatisation of COVID-19 patients.