Mary Nnah As part of its effort to curb the increase of unemployment rate occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic, the Chairman of Pilot Property, Goddy Amezechi is set to open another venture, Freesia Wellness, Beauty and Spa Centre, to give back to the society. The beauty, fitness and wellness outfit which grand opening is scheduled for Saturday, January 30, at 10am in Ikeja GRA, Lagos, Amezechi said, is a unique sex outfit that provides services that includes weight loss, skin care among others focusing on positive reconnection to the inner and outer beauty. Amezechi who has engaged in several humanitarian activities in his community and environs where he lives, especially on healthcare services and distribution of food, felt another way to engage people was to create the outfit as well as provide services that can encourage wellness for clients who can afford it. Speaking at the press briefing heralding the grand opening of the beauty and wellness outfit, he said the firm is a unique blend that provides all the services at a spot when it comes to beauty, fitness and wellness. “We stepped in to meet the challenges of today’s major skin and its crisis. Today’s man/woman is one who is mindful of not just how they appear but also their health, fitness and sexual lifestyle. “Therefore, the outfit would offer curated beauty, grooming, and wellness services to help you look and feel your best. “It is a place where our customers can find inner peace, talk to certified professionals about ways to improve their lifestyle while escaping the stress of work or personal life.” Basket Mouth, Malta Guinness’ Brand Ambassador Shares Journey to Greatness Malta Guinness, Africa’s number one premium non-alcoholic adult malt drink, is still in a celebratory mood as it continues to air its Journey to Greatness Series, one of its exciting activations to showcase core brand values by spreading goodness, energy, and fuelling the CAN-Do spirit of Nigerians. A six-part Journey to Greatness series tells the stories of inspiring Nigerians who have defied odds and excelled in their chosen fields. The series spotlights the career journey of these talented individuals and highlights them telling their stories of trials and truths as well as the significant role Malta Guinness played in their growth, development and career. The fifth episode features Bright Okpocha, also known as Basket Mouth, who shared a chronological story of how he started as a comedian to where he is right now, holding, Comedian, Actor, Producer, Brand Ambassador etc. under his belt. His inspiring story where he said “I couldn’t afford show tickets, so my friends will buy them for me”, “ I always knew I had greatness in me” and a lot more inspiring notes, will motivate you to believe in hard work and consistency as well as the need to create opportunities for other people and lift them up. His latest work Papa Benji has been the talk of the town for months now. Basket Mouth’s unique Journey to Greatness follows stories from; actress, Chy Nwakanma; Malta KOB Challenge winners, Tope Olowoniyan and Jide Onyegbile; multi-talented creative, Toyosi Opanubi; and Comedian Xtreme.