By Segun James The Lagos State Government yesterday said a new date for public and private primary and secondary schools to resume in the state would be announced soon. Head, Public Affairs, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mr. Kayode Abayomi, made this known in statement, explaining that schools in the state are not reopening on Monday, January 4, 2021, as earlier announced. According to him, the second wave of COVID-19 would be a major determinant for the reopening of schools in the state. He said, “Please, recall that the Ministry of Education earlier announced 4th of January as resumption date for the second term 2020/2021 academic session, but this has since been overtaken by the turn of events due to the recent waves of COVID-19 pandemic. “As a result of the spike in Coronavirus pandemic, Mr. Governor announced the indefinite closure of all schools. To this end, kindly be informed that a new date of resumption will be announced as soon as possible.” Also, following the increase in recorded cases of coronavirus, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has directed all State Public Servants on Grade Levels 14 and below to continue working from home till Monday, January 18, 2021. Governor Sanwo-Olu who said the directive excludes essential duty staff, as well as first responders, enjoined all public servants to stay safe and keep adhering to all COVID-19 protocols in order to rid the State of the pandemic in the shortest possible time. Governor Sanwo-Olu’s directive was contained in a circular issued by the Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, to members of the State Executive Council and all heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies on Sunday. The circular entitled “Re: Stemming the tide of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic” also stated that the Year 2021 First Work Day Prayer Session for all public servants in Lagos State would be held virtually on Monday, January 4. “Sequel to Head of Service Circular Ref. No: CIR/HOS/’20/Vol.1/139 of 18th December, 2020 on stemming the tide of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state, it is hereby notified for general information that Mr. Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu has further directed all State Public Servants on Grade Levels 14 and below to continue working from home till Monday, 18th January 2021. Expectedly, the directive excludes Essential Duty Staff, as well as First Responders. “Furthermore, while wishing all Staff, a prosperous and fulfilling Year, please be informed that the Y2021 First Work Day Prayer Session for all Public Servants in Lagos State shall be held in line with tradition on Monday, January 4, 2020. However, in keeping with COVID-19 Protocols, the session shall be held via zoom and live-streamed on Facebook. “In addition, all public servants are enjoined to stay safe and to keep adhering to all COVID-19 Protocols in order to rid the state of the pandemic in the shortest possible time. “All Heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies are urged to note the contents of this Circular for compliance and give it the deserved Service-wide publicity,” the circular stated.