Quadri Adegun Nigerian pastor Olayori Iyiola of the Redeemed Christian Church of God has launched his most recent evangelical book, “Scavengers in God’s Vineyard” in a small gathering held at the NUT Pavilion, Ikeja Lagos, recently. The author described his latest publication as “a seven-chapter book which is a documentation of spiritual conversation between a mentor and his mentee over a period of seven days.”A graduate of Fisheries from Lagos State University, Nigeria, the author also holds Masters of Arts in Theology, from The Redeemed Christians College, an affiliate of Redeemer’s University Nigeria. His previous books include “The Spirit of Ichabod” and “But for Lazarus Sake.” The chairman of the launch, Mr Segun Oshinowo, a retired director of Nigerian Employers’ Consultative Association [NECA], in his remarks said that the author, Iyiola as a man of many positive facets because of how he has used his ministry to bless countless number of people. “I consider it a privilege to be on the spot of chairmanship of this event because the author is someone who has, over the years, proven to be of advantage to many of us by always being at our spiritual service. He’s someone who has taken it upon himself to not go into the grave with his God’s given talent by ensuring he documents his inspiration for people,” he said. He also encouraged the audience to ensure they don’t go to their graves with their talents. The reviewer of the book, Mrs Wunmi Kalejaye, in her review did a segmentation that includes who the author and what the book is; highlighting the content of the book; chapters of the book and how the book can be of benefit to the people. She sees the book as a continuation of evangelical efforts to draw the people into the vineyard of God. When asked of the age group this book centers, she said “as a place of comfort which the church is for people, this book cuts across age groups because it tends to answer the question of salvation by boldly seeing to various spiritual problems discussed between the mentor and the mentee.” In her view, youths are the set of people that are most positioned to benefit from the book the most because they are the ones who usually find themselves in confusing situations that require urgent decisions. The book is published by Asefada Ventures, Agege Lagos.