By Kasim Sumaina The 2020 Corruption Perception Index (CPI) released globally by Transparency International (TI) Thursday in Abuja, showed that Nigeria yet again, records a decline in the CPI. Published exclusively in Nigeria by the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), the national chapter of TI, the index reveals that Nigeria scored 25 out of 100 points, failing back by one point compared to last year. In the comparison for this year, Nigeria ranks 149 out of 183 countries, three places down compared to 2019 results. The Executive Director, CISLAC, Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsajani), while announcing the results, noted that in the past four years, Nigeria’s score has declined on average by 0.8 annually. He noted that CPI aggregates data from eight different sources that provided perceptions by Nigeria’s business community and country experts on the level of corruption in the public sector. Stating that while the index does not show specific incidences of corruption, “it is an indication of the perception of the Nigerian public about the state of corruption in the country. The index is completely impartial, objective and globally well respected,” Rafsajani said. According to him, the result is coming on the heels of numerous challenges facing the country, ranging from the Covid-19 pandemic, insecurity, high unemployment and a sharp increase in government borrowing, amongst others. He observed that Nigeria’s CPI score is just another reminder of the need for a fast, transparent and robust response to the challenges posed by corruption to Nigeria. He added that it is worrying that despite the numerous efforts by state actors on the war against corruption, Nigeria is still perceived by citizens and members of the international community as being corrupt. He stressed that CISLAC/TI and partners suspect a list of key weaknesses to explain why Nigeria may not have improved in the fight against corruption. While sighting absence of transparency in the Covid-19 pandemic response, nepotism in the public service appointments and promotions, lack of adequate anti-corruption legal frameworks and interference by politicians in the operation of law enforcement agencies among others, he said: “Going forward, we use this medium to call on the government and her supporters to examine the drivers behind Nigeria’s deteriorating anti-corruption image and consider actions which will tackle systemic corruption. “As law abiding citizens, CISLAC/TI and other partner organisations are willing to work with state and non-state actors on how to collectively improve Nigeria’s fight against corruption as we have always done in the past.”