By Victor Ogunje The Senator representing Ekiti Central senatorial district, Mrs. Biodun Olujimi, has advised the members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state not to divide the party through agitations for power shift to the Southern senatorial district in the state in the 2022 governorship election. This was contained in a statement signed by her media aide, Sanya Atofarati, and made available to journalists in Ado Ekiti yesterday. Olujimi said her attention has been drawn to an agitation, wherein some PDP stakeholders expressed their support for the turn of the South senatorial district, compelling her to take a plunge into the race. She said: “We appreciate all the agitators, who have acted in line with their fundamental human rights to self-agitation and determination, for their objective concern and sincere support for our performing senator, whom they have considered worthy as the most viable alternative for the revered governorship position of Ekiti State. “It is, however, imperative to know that members of the Senator Biodun Olujimi team share the same ideology that for the sake of equity and fair play, the South senatorial district be given the privilege to represent the state in the next governorship race having been marginalised since the creation of Ekiti State 25 years ago. “However, we should be cautious of being driven by emotions or sentiments, capable of distracting us from our collective pursuit as one indivisible and formidable entity which is the repositioning of our great party, PDP, in which every member would be proud of.” Olujimi said she remained an advocate of ‘Ekiti First’ project, and as such, will not indulge in any act capable of dividing the party than uniting it. “However, we urge all groups and interests particularly from the South senatorial district to remain calm, as the priority of Senator Olujimi presently is to unite the party and encourage others to remain united prior to, during and until after the court judgement on the ward congresses,” the statement noted. Meanwhile, the state All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged residents of the state to go about their normal activities without any fear of threat to their lives or property. Reacting to a statement credited to the PDP that the people are no longer safe in the state under the administration of Governor Kayode Fayemi, the APC in a statement issued by its Public Relations Officer, Hon. Ade Ajayi, pointed out that insecurity is a national malaise and not peculiar to the state alone.