By Hammed Shittu Less than two years to the general election in the country, some elders and stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State have vowed to challenge any opposition to the second term bid of the state Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, in 2023. The group said the performances of the governor since assumption of office have qualified him to take another shot at the governor’s seat in the Ahmadu Bello Government House in Ilorin. The spokesman of the elders’ caucus and party leaders, Senator Suleiman Ajadi, who spoke at a press conference in Ilorin yesterday, however, acknowledged that there is crisis in the party, stressing that it’s normal in any big political party even in developed countries. The event was attended by delegates from the 16 local government areas of the state. It was also attended by elders and party leaders, which included Chief G.G Jaiyeola, Princess Babalola, Senator Suleiman Ajadi, Alhaji Ayinla Folorunsho, Senator Mohammed Ahmed, Kunle Sulyman, Chief JT Ayeni, and Prince Sunday Fagbemi. Others were Nurudeen Mohammed, Alhaji Iliyassu Ibrahim, Gen. Tunde Bello, Yinusa Yahaya, Gen. Kale Abass, Hajia Taye Omotosho and Salman Jawondo. He said: “All series of perceived attacks against the administration of AbdulRazaq would not take any members of the party to anywhere, as the administration has laid a solid foundation since it took over the mantle of leadership of the state.” Ajadi also said there was room for reconciliation with other aggrieved members of the party. According to him, “There is room for reconciliation, but the next six months is around the corner when there will be democratic process to elect new chairman and other members of the executives.” On their position on AbdulRazaq’s second term, he said: “Any performing governor would be interested in a second term, and I have never seen any governor in Nigeria who has said he would leave office after his first term. “Governor AbdulRazaq is performing very well and everybody can see it; those opposing him are doing so for selfish reasons .Even if he’s not interested, we will ask him to go for a second term. We are ready to face the crisis on the side of the governor. We are not afraid, as we will face it squarely.” Ajadi pledged their support for the governor and his administration, saying the governor is delivering dividends of democracy in the state.