By James Sowole The Ondo State Executive Council has approved four contracts at the sum of N7.4 billion, with the execution period of the contract lasting between eight months and 24 months. The award of the contracts was disclosed at a news briefing held after the completion of the State Executive Council meeting yesterday, which was the first in 2021. Four officers of the state government disclosed this when they addressed a press briefing held at the Cocoa Conference Hall at the governor’s office. Briefing journalists, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Lands and Infrastructure, Mr. Raheem Aminu, mentioned the four projects awarded to include Alape-Araromi Seaside adjourning road in Ilaje Local Government Area of the state. Aminu said the 32 kilometre road would be financed with the fund of the Ondo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (OSOPADEC), and is expected to be completed within 18 months. The special adviser added that the road was designed to accommodate heavy vehicular movement, adding that 30 percent of the contract amount had been paid as mobilisation fee. Other road project awarded by the government, according to Aminu, is the five kilometre Agadagba Obon New Ajapa .Road and was expected to be completed within 24 months. Aminu said the road, which was also in the Southern senatorial district of the state, is located in Ede Odo Local Government Area. He also disclosed that the government also awarded contract for the new Treasury building, the construction of which started in 2012, but was abandoned. The governor aide said the building, when completed, would accommodate the office of the Accountant General of the state and other offices. He added that the contract was expected to be completed within 24 months. Aminu also said the government has awarded contract for the repair of the state House of Assembly, which would be completed within eight months. The state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, said the action of the state government has dispelled the insinuation that the government doesn’t do anything in second term. He said: “For the state Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, second term is not for play. The second term like the first term, to us, is for serious business.”