By Victor Ogunje The Appeal Court sitting in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, yesterday dismissed the suit filed by the caucus loyal to the Senator representing Ekiti South senatorial district, Biodun Olujimi over the congress that produced the present Ward Executive Committee members of the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) in Ekiti State. After the violent Congress in Ekiti, the Chief Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee had recognised the ward and local government executives loyal to Governor Ayodele Fayose , from where Hon. Kolawole had emerged as the State Chairman. Miffed by the outcome, those loyal to Senator Olujimi had approached the court to seek redress. One Oladimeji Samson Olalekan and others, had filed a motion ex-parte, seeking an order of the court, restraining the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) from announcing, publishing, and recognising any list as result of election of Ward Executives and three ad-hoc delegates held on March 7, 2020. They also sought an order restraining the party from acting on, or making use of the names of winners of the Congresses for the purpose of the Local Government, State and Zonal Congresses. At the lower court, Justice Uche N. Agomoh of the Federal High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti, had on Friday, July 17, 2020 dismissed the suit, describing it as undoubtedly not justiceable as same is within an internal affairs of the PDP, citing UKUT vs. APC. Delivering judgment in the Appeal Number CA/EK/57/2020, the Appellate court upheld the decision of the trial Court and resolved all issues against the Appellant, Oladimeji Samson Olalekan. The court also awarded N200,000 cost against the plaintiff and their Counsel to be paid to the PDP, the 4th and 5th defendants on or before of September 1, 2020. In upholding the lower court’s decision, Justice T.N Orji-Abadua, said: “the appellant’s case was not justifiable since it was centred on internal affairs of a political party”. Reacting to the judgment, Fayose said “to all PDP members, please see this a victory for all. No victor, no vanquished. We are in deep talks to reconcile all. We should refrain from provocative languages.” The National Working Committee (NWC) of the party had in a letter with ref no: PDP/DOM/GF.V/VOL.2/20-387B dated April 25, 2020 and signed by Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd), National Organising Secretary, ordered the state chairman of the party to inaugurate the 155 ward EXCO for the 14 out of the 16 local government areas of the State.