James Emejo in Abuja
Automotive technology company, Autochek Africa has announced a strategic partnership with the Association of Motor Dealers of Nigeria (AMDON) to deliver a digitalised and enabling platform for vehicle dealers in the country. Chief Executive of Autochek, Etop Ikpe, said the partnership will enable the company deploy its technology to create a more sustainable and structured marketplace for cars in Nigeria, working with AMDON. Speaking at the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between both parties in Abuja, IIkpe said the deal would also expand the ecosystem available for sales for all dealers while also, “doing our part to reduce the fragmentation in the ecosystem as we bring finance partners and dealers together to provide consumer credit and drive automotive commerce.” He expressed delight that though the automotive sector remained a highly traditional sector, “AMDON with this move is wholesomely adopting technology and preparing itself for the future. Our mantra is partner prosperity and partnering with AMDON allows us to drive this mantra at scale across all registered dealers in Nigeria,” he added. National President of AMDON, Mr. Ajibola Adedoyin, pointed out that the collaboration offers members of AMDON the opportunity to drive more sales by taking advantage of the online marketplace which increases the visibility of their inventory to potential car buyers across Nigeria. He said car buyers not only have access to select from a large pool of cars, but also get access to multiple car loan offers from finance partners on the Autochek platform thereby enhancing the ease of purchase and auto financing penetration in the country. He said the agreement also provides value added services for customers as they can now access car loans through the Autochek platform to purchase cars. Adedoyin said: “This increase in automotive commerce has cascading benefits all along the value chain with one of the major benefits being increased job opportunities as we see more dealer empowerment and liquidity in the ecosystem.
“In addition to this, this partnership introduces a standardised inspection and rating system for cars thus enhancing customer trust in completing the vehicle purchase process. “Dealers can also continuously take advantage of diverse training programs on lead management, digital marketing, car loan application process and other advanced technologies to run their business.” AMDON is the major representative of all registered professionals of auto dealers in the country with the sole aim of ensuring and fostering business development, rights advocacy and recognition for all our constituent members. It has collaborated with the Nigerian Police Force, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other relevant agencies to further drive growth and structure in the auto industry.