After an online petition calling for the sack of the Managing Director of First City Monument Bank (FCMB), Adam Nuru, fetched more than a thousand signatures, the board of the bank has agreed to investigate the paternity scandal which the chief executive is embroiled in. In a statement signed by the Bank’s Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Diran Olojo, the bank said that it is fully aware of “several stories circulating across several media platforms about our bank’s Managing Director Adam Nuru, a former employee Ms. Moya Thomas and her deceased husband, Mr. Tunde Thomas. “While this is a personal matter, the tragedy of the death of Mr. Tunde Thomas and the allegations of unethical conduct require the bank’s board to conduct a review of what transpired, any violations of our code of ethics and the adequacy of these code of conduct ethics. This will be done immediately.” Nuru has been accused of causing the death of Thomas, an Executive Director of GDL Asset Management Company Ltd after the deceased was said to have learnt that Nuru allegedly fathered the two children from his marriage to Moya, a former employee of the bank.
According to reports, Thomas only got to know about his wife’s affair with Nuru after she relocated to the United States with their two children. At the time, she had resigned from FCMB. However, it turned out that the news devastated Thomas such that he suffered a stroke. He would later recover and attempted to start life afresh. But it wouldn’t be so. Thomas didn’t end up like the rising phoenix. His hope of finding love in the arms of another woman was truncated after he suffered a heart attack on December 16, some days to his introduction ceremony to the family of his newly pregnant girlfriend. He was said to have died instantly. The petition titled, ‘Compel the CBN & board of FCMB to dismiss Adam Nuru on ethical grounds (marriage scandal)’ on the online platform change.org attributed his death to the betrayal of his wife. Nuru is accused of “gross misconduct based on ethical grounds and an unjustifiable economic oppression by the elites (Adam Nuru) against the less privileged in the society. The MD has been doing everything possible to sweep this case under the carpet. We implore the Central Bank of Nigeria as the apex regulator and the board of FCMB to investigate this for the integrity of the bank and Nigerian banking industry.” The clamour for Nuru’s sack reverberated mostly on Twitter in the past few days but some argued that the personal matter of the Managing Director shouldn’t affect his professional life.
Neither Nuru nor Moyo has made a public statement.