Nigeria’s foremost lifestyle platform, Nairabox, owned by JORG Technologies Limited, has announced changes to its leadership structure with Tokunbo Adetona taking the reins as the sole Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the firm effective 1 January 2021. Prior to this restructuring, Nairabox maintained a dual CEO structure with Ugochukwu ‘Jay’ Chikezie serving alongside Adetona as Co-CEO. Jay will provide support in implementing Nairabox’s 2021 growth plans as a member of the Board of Directors, JORG Technologies. Speaking on the new structure, Adetona said: “While the Co-CEO structure was necessary to bring Nairabox to where we are today, we recognise the rapid changes in today’s world that have necessitated a transition to a single CEO leading the business. With this move, we will be better able to consolidate on the gains of previous years, increase our investments in business innovation and introduce more products and services to meet stakeholders needs. “We are also excited about the opportunities for new collaborations in 2021. I am honoured to be taking on the role as sole CEO of Nairabox at a transformational time in our story and I remain grateful to Jay for his exceptional leadership on our journey thus far. Our GM Toyin Emmanuel will now be joining me in a senior leadership role as COO of the company. Her commitment and leadership displayed within the company over the last 5 years has been nothing short of exemplary. I look forward to achieving great things with her.” On his part, the outgoing Co-CEO and Co-Founder, Jay Chikezie said: “It is one of my greatest achievements to have Co-Founded this amazing company Nairabox. Since its inception in 2015, I have steered this company in its strategic direction, business and operations. In the last 3 years Tokunbo and I have worked together as CO-CEOs leading the company to what it has become today, I believe there has been no better pair as we did this with so much respect for each other and not once did our ego get in the way of our goal. “While I will no longer be serving as Co-CEO, I remain Co-Founder and a director on the Board, and I look forward to providing the necessary guidance to the entire team at Nairabox to ensure that we deliver on our mandate to our stakeholders. I am confident that Nairabox is going into a new phase of unprecedented growth and I believe the new offerings will be announced to the public’s delight in short course.” Nairabox is a lifestyle concierge providing convenient access to movies at the cinema, top events and food from the best restaurants delivered to their door.