Kingsley Nwezeh and Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja Bandits have kidnapped at gunpoint 11 persons from Rachael Orphanage Home in the Abaji Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) It was learned that the bandits abducted seven orphans and four workers.
The orphanage was reportedly invaded at about 1 a.m on Saturday.
The abducted orphans were Jacob Ukpas, Melody Ijeh, Bernard Itim, Isaac Matthew, Elizabeth Andrew, Dayo Udeh and Laruba Emmanuel. Also abducted were three orphanage workers: Rukayyat Salihu, Suwaiba Momoh, Momoh Jimoh and the security guard, Joseph Matthew. The gang said to be heavily armed, carried the stealth raid on the orphanage dormitory after forcing the gate open.
Sources at Abaji Area Council attributed the kidnapping to the sudden withdrawal of the anti-kidnapping Joint Taskforce (JTF) last week by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) and the FCT Command of the Nigerian Police in circumstances attributed to a shortage of funds. The JTF, which was receiving its funding through the security department of the FCTA was set up last October to provide security in the FCT. The squad was credited with improving security and reduction in cases of kidnapping in the Kuje and Abaji axis as well as the deployment of security around Toto hills in Nasarawa State and the Chikara/Gegu axis in Kogi State against kidnapping. Meanwhile, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command said it has launched a manhunt for the abductors.
It said a crack team of detectives was deployed in the general area to track the fleeing gunmen, adding that one of the orphans was rescued. Police Public Relations Officer, Mariam Yusuf, said more police detectives were deployed to aid the rescuing.
“All the persons kidnapped, including the children, all of them are eight.
“However, we were able to rescue one person and effort is still ongoing to rescue the others.
“As I speak, we have made heavy deployment already in place. We have also made an additional deployment to ensure that we rescue and reunite the children with their handlers,” she said.