By Segun James The College of Medicine of the Lagos State University (LASUTH) has been shut as many students and officials tested positive for COVID-19 at its campus in Ikeja.
LASUTH, which is one of the few centres of excellence in medicine in the country, has been in the forefront of the treatment of COVID-19 in the state.
THISDAY gathered that the campus was shut due to the fact that many people tested positive at the same time.
Although it could not be ascertained if those not found positive have been quarantined within the campus or asked to go home, but it was gathered that the state government has been informed about the new development.
Head of the Centre for Information, Press and Public Relations of the Lagos State University, AdemolaAdekoya, said in a statement titled ‘Lagos State University College of Medicine closes hostel as three students test positive for COVID-19,’ that the affected students are in isolation.
“The Management of Lagos State University wishes to inform staff, students and the general public that three students of the Lagos State University College of Medicine have tested positive for COVID-19 leading the College to immediately close down all her hostel facilities.
“In addition, stakeholders are also informed that roommates of the three students who tested positive and their associates are being tested.
“The College already isolated the affected three students and has commenced contact tracing of all affected students;
“The hostel facilities were immediately closed for decontamination upon confirmation of the status of the affected students.
“All students of the College have been advised to proceed home to self-isolate for the next 14 days from where their health status will be monitored by the College. Phone numbers/contacts of all students are already obtained to that effect;
“Any students showing symptoms at home are to contact the College through dedicated lines for necessary assistance/treatment.
“Meanwhile, the College has handed treatment packs to all three who tested positive.
“The College is also providing psychological support to the three students who tested positive and their roommates.
“Parents, guardians and the general public are assured that the safety of all staff and students is of top priority and the Lagos State University as a whole will continue to enforce compliance with Covid-19 guidelines and protocols to ensure the safety of all within her campuses.
“Management also again enjoins all students, staff and the general public to take personal responsibility and continue to observe COVID-19 guidelines, as the virus is real and deadly.”