Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City The Edo State Government yesterday, took on primary school teachers in the state over the planned strike action by the teachers commencing from February 1, 2021. The primary school teachers through their body, Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) in the state had issued a 21-day ultimatum to the Edo State Government, stating that their entitlements should be paid before resumption of schools which had remained unresolved. Arising from this, the NUT on Wednesday, issued directives to all primary school teachers in the state asking them to shun the February 1, 2021, resumption date proposed by the state government. In the statement, the union accused the state government of having not “demonstrated any reasonable commitment to resolve the issues presented to it and unanimously agreed that dialogue/negotiation between it and the state government should continue while the strike persists.” But in a twist, the state government yesterday issued a warning to the teachers, stating its resolve to invoke the “no work no pay” policy. The government in a press statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Osarodion Ogie in Benin City, directed all primary school teachers to resume on the February 1, 2021. The statement reads in part: “This is to inform all parents, teachers and the general public that all public primary schools in Edo State shall resume full activities on Monday 1st February 2021. “Parents are expected to make their children and wards ready for resumption on this date. Government wishes to reemphasise that all public-school teachers and head teachers are required to be present in their various schools. Failure to resume work would be considered forfeiture of salary as the Edo State Government has activated the No Work, No Pay policy. “Head Teachers and Teachers who are desirous of staying away from work in support of the sponsored strike action by certain elements of the Edo State Branch of the National Union of Teachers, are required to hand over all school property in their.