He was once the golden boy of the Jan Breydel Stadium, but this season has however been tough for him. Goals had been hard to come by for Emmanuel Dennis as he failed to find the net in nine league starts. With a move to German Bundesliga side, Cologne, completed last week, the big question is whether he can regain his form as the Billy Goats need goals to battle relegation Nigeria international Emmanuel Dennis last week completed his loan switch to Bundesliga side Koln from Club Brugge. The 23-year-old forward teamed up with the Billy Goats after a successful medical and will be expected to help the club avoid relegation at the end of the season. The Super Eagles winger will link up with his compatriots Kingsley Ehizibue and Tolu Arokodare at the RheinEnergieStadion. The forward has only made 13 appearances across all competitions for Club Brugge this season, scoring one goal and providing three assists. Dennis was punished in November when he was axed from their Champions League game against Borussia Dortmund for misconduct. The forward left the team bus in anger after he was denied his preferred seating position and Dennis admitted the first half of the season has been difficult for him. “The last six months were not easy for me. I want to play and score goals, and therefore I wanted to make a move in the current transfer window. I am pleased that I’m now at FC,” Dennis told the club website. “I know what the sporting situation at FC is – therefore I want to play my part in keeping us in the league, by playing and scoring in a top league.” Upon the conclusion of the deal, Cologne managing director Horst Heldt highlighted some of the qualities of the Nigeria international that made the club recruit him. “Emmanuel is a quick player, who can play through the middle as a striker as well as on the wings. His finishing ability last season saw him gain the interest of many top clubs,” Heldt said. Dennis has been with Club Brugge since the summer of 2017 when he teamed up with the side from Zorya Luhansk. The forward has made more than 90 appearances across all competitions for Club Brugge and delivered eye-catching performances in domestic competitions and the Champions League. In the 2017-18 season, he featured prominently as the Black and Blue won the First Division A title and also helped the club finished as runner-up in the 2018-19 campaign. Dennis has explained why he had to leave Belgian Pro League champions Club Brugge. The 23-year-old striker recently completed his transfer to German Bundesliga side FC Cologne from Brugge on a loan deal until the end of the season. The Yola-born player had left the team bus in anger after he was denied his preferred seating position and he has since reflected on the last six months. “The last six months were not easy for me,” Dennis told Cologne official website. “I want to play and score goals, and therefore I wanted to make a move in the current transfer window. I am pleased that I’m now at FC. “I know what the sporting situation at FC is – therefore I want to play my part in keeping us in the league, by playing and scoring in a top league.” Dennis played nine matches for Brugge in the Belgian Pro League this season and he failed to find the back of the net. Meanwhile, his value in the transfer market has crashed from 16 million to 11 million Euros within five months According to transfermarkt, Dennis was valued at 16 million Euros in August 2020. However, this price tag has tumbled to 11 million Euros now. This crash could well be blamed on the many controversies involving the player as well as his limited appearances for champions Club Brugge this season. His Belgian club had hoped to sell him for between 20 and 25 million Euros last summer. However, none of his interested suitors could match that asking price. The player himself revealed a transfer to Premier League club West Bromwich Albion fell through after he was not granted a work permit. Dennis made his debut for the Nigeria national team in September 2019 against Ukraine and now has two caps for the Super Eagles. He will hope to impress with his new club for a chance to enjoy regular call-up to the Nigeria national team.