The presidential bid of the National Leader of All Progressives Congress Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has received a boost as former and current Speakers of State Houses of Assembly in the South-west Thursday drummed support for his 2023 presidential quest. The former and current top lawmakers in the zone gathered at Carlton Gate Xclusive Hotel, Ibadan, on Wednesday and Thursday for a strategic meeting convened by Lagos Speaker Mudashiru Obasa. At the meeting where they agreed on some far-reaching resolutions on how to actualise the presidential aspiration of Tinubu, Speaker Obasa formally introduced the Bola Ahmed Tinubu (BAT) Foundation and Movement, a campaign platform created for the purpose of mobilising for Tinubu’s presidential ambition. Obasa noted that despite the fact that Tinubu was yet to make his intention known regarding 2023, there was the need to deliberate on some important issues. Obasa said the BAT Movement was meant to break the shackles of poverty in the society and to create a coordinated humanitarian image for Tinubu. He therefore charged all the South-west Speakers, both current and former at the meeting to go back to their respective states to set up the template that would see to the actualisation of the Tinubu presidential ambition in 2023. While addressing the participants, the National Coordinator of the BAT Movement, Ambassador Aliyu Saulawa, emphasised on the Movement’s readiness in ensuring power shift to the South-west and to be clinched by Tinubu. Saulawa lauded Tinubu’s support for President Mohammadu Buhari rather than former Vice President Atiku Abubakar who would have done anything for Tinubu, to win his support. At the end of the two-day meeting, the Speakers unanimously resolved and decided on how they would work toward the realisation of Tinubu’s presidential ambition. They agreed that: “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, being a Yoruba man with the capacity, experience and means should be the candidate to be supported to emerge as the next president of Nigeria. “That Asiwaju Tinubu still needs to do more networking in Yoruba land, especially amongst serving and past governors so that voices of dissent can be reduced to the barest minimum. “That all stakeholders here present should go back home and start the Asiwaju Tinubu presidential project pending when he will come out publicly to agree to contest. “And that all speakers present must commence beneficial political interaction with traditional rulers across the southwest.”