By Alex Enumah Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of a Federal High Court in Abuja yesterday ordered the service of a N250million damage suit against Professor Anthony Adegbulugbe. Adegbulugbe, who was an the energy adviser in the President Olusegun Obasanjo administration and chairman of Green Energy International Limited, was slammed with a N250 million suit by two aggrieved directors of Green Energy over alleged injustice and cheating among other offences. The plaintiffs, Dr. Bunu Alibe and Mr. Ayo Olojede, had in a motion on notice marked: FHC/ABJ/PET/20/2020 filed by their counsel, Alade Agbabiaka (SAN), listed the company and Adegbulugbe as first and second respondents respectively. The duo are by the suit they commenced via a petition accused Adegbulugbe of a series of a corporate misdemeanors, including unilateral usurpation of executive responsibilities, contrary to the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA), 2020, and the Company’s Articles. They claimed that they were unlawfully removed by the chairman of the company they jointly nurtured to maturity. The applicants averred that such decision was contrary to the provisions of CAMA, 2020, and the organisation’s Article of Association. When the matter was called yesterday, Agbabiaka informed the court that a petition dated November 24, 2020, was filed and served on the respondents and that they had responded with two processes. He then asked for consolidation of the processes with the suit marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/1390/2020 filed by the company against the petitioners which was already before the court. However, counsel to the respondents, Benbella Anachebe (SAN), objected to Agbabiaka’s submission, stating that they have not been properly served with the petitioners’ processes. He urged the court not to fixe a date for hearing in the matter until the respondents were properly served. While responding, the judge wondered how Anachebe would have replied to the processes served on his clients and still argued that they had not been properly served. She, however, directed lawyer to the petitioners to serve the processes on the defendants and fixed March 23, 2021, for mention. Recall that the judge had fixed a sister case for February 10. Alibe and Olojede, in the petition, are seeking an order of interlocutory injunction, restraining the first and second respondents from acting on the resolutions of the company’s Annual General Meeting held on November 12, 2020, pending the hearing and final determination of the petition filed herein. The petitioners are accusing Adegbulugbe of a series of corporate misdemeanor, including unilateral usurpation of executive responsibilities, contrary to the provisions of the CAMA 2020 and the Company’s Articles of Association.