…Distributes 100,000 face masks, sanitisers By Sylvester Idowu A group under the aegis of Onuesoke Foundation has commenced awareness campaign for the prevention and eradication of COVID-19 pandemic with free distribution of over 100,000 face masks and sanitiser in Delta State rural communities. Before now, Onuesoke Foundation started the awareness campaign on COVID-19 by placing advertisement jingles on television and radio stations across Delta State advising those in the rural communities to adhere strictly to the prevention guidelines of the pandemic. The group, in a statement signed by Project Coordinator of Onuesoke Foundation, Mr Steven Agadagba disclosed that, in order to save lives, the group has embarked on three weeks sensitisation campaign aimed at increasing a high sense of awareness among rural dwellers and to promote a clean, safe and healthy culture as a way of mitigating against the spread of the deadly pandemic. He disclosed that the awareness campaign and distribution of free face masks and sanitisers which took off from Udu local government area of Delta State on Wednesday, January 13, 2021 will see them through rural communities in all the 25 local government areas of the state. Agadagba advised that all hands must be on deck to checkmate the spread of the pandemic in Nigeria, just as he urged the people to strictly adhere to the preventive guidelines as instructed by the Nigeria Centre For Disease Control (NCDC) in order to curtail the spread of the dreaded pandemic. He equally called on local authorities to do more in ensuring that rural dwellers comply with government directives with respect to prevention and contamination of COVID-19. Agadagba lamented that from all indications, most rural communities have not fully come to terms with the dangers associated with social gathering as a quick and fast way of spreading the virus, stressing that this is very worrisome because it portends great danger if measures are not taken to checkmate this negative trend. The coordinator appealed to both the federal and state governments to increase COVID-19 testing and quarantine centres across the country as a measure to curtail the rising spread of the pandemic. He equally appealed to corporate organisations and well to do individuals to provide funds for the establishment of both testing and quarantine centres for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, adding that not until there are enough testing and quarantine centres in the country the pandemic will linger on. He commended health workers, security operatives and journalists that are hardly mentioned and others on the front line of the fight against the pandemic for a job well done.