Andrew Skipper, Partner and Head of Hogan Lovells Africa Practice and Co-Chair of the UK’s Africa Investors Group (AIG), will be speaking at the Africa Investment Conference, hosted by The UK Department for International Trade and opened by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. This fully virtual event takes place on Wednesday 20 January 2021 and marks the one-year anniversary of the landmark UK-Africa Investment Summit. Andrew will be chairing the opening panel with four leading industry figureheads representing finance, investment, technology and telecoms and pharmaceuticals. Speakers include: Shameel Joosub, Group CEO of Vodacom; Nick O’Donohoe CEO of CDC; Ibukun Awosika, Chair at First Bank of Nigeria and Barbara Nel, Country President African Cluster at Astra Zeneca. Commenting, Andrew said “I feel lucky to be able to welcome four well-known business leaders representing iconic brands from across sectors and geographies to share their stories of investing and working in Africa.” Adding to this stellar panel, the event will include an interview with Dr Akinwumi Adesina, President of African Development Bank, among other illustrious speakers. The Africa Investment Conference will provide a platform for UK and African businesses to make connections and learn more about the support offered by the UK Government to business and investors. It will also be an opportunity for attendees to hear directly from UK companies about the opportunities and challenges of investing in and doing business across Africa. The half day Africa Investment Conference will explore how inclusive, sustainable and resilient investment can serve to help Africa transition to a cleaner, greener growth trajectory and will showcase the UK’s capability and emerging opportunities across the continent. Highlighting the UK Department for International Trade’s support that is available to business, the conference will make the case for a strengthened, closer collaboration and partnership between the UK and Africa. The conference will have a focus around four key sectors of activity, and will showcase UK capability and the emerging opportunities across Africa in these sectors: