Zeta-Web Nigeria Limited, an indigenous information technology (IT) firm in Lagos, has reiterated its commitment to bring robust broadband and internet solutions that would ease productivity for Nigerians in the post Covid 19 work place. The company introduced Z-Force, a super-fast internet service designed for Nigerians working from home and other notable services for other market segments lately. Speaking to the media on importance of the Z-Force to the current work place, the Managing Director of Zeta–Web Nigeria Limited, Chris Obasi, said: “Our Z-Force service is unique in its design as it came out at a point where users wanted internet services with both speed and data that they can use while working remotely, void of the frequent intermittencies and high-cost associated with such requests. As you would agree with me, the global pandemic brought with it, different challenges and an uncharted path that a lot of businesses where ill-prepared for; but we saw it as an opportunity to change the way we think and operate, and this meant that we had to look at a product that acts as a best-fit to the need of our clients as well as meet the current demand and market trend.” According to him, “Our unique selling point is one product that meets the unique need of every user, Fast installation, high quality of service, fair pricing and Excellent Customer Turnaround Response Time to mention a few. Z-Force is a hybrid product that serves both the SME market (Home office) and selective mass market like home users, online schooling, entertainment, among others.” With a collection of world-class services and solutions, the company has repositioned itself as a one-stop centre for IT needs. In line with the global best practices, Zeta-Web Nigeria Limited has demonstrated a high level of commitment to customer support over the years which has brought accolades and recognition to them. Obasi further said: “Our unique selling point is that we listen to our customers before designing the desired product that meets their specific needs; as we know that the world is evolving and it is no more one product fits all.” Zeta-Web Nigeria Limited is also bringing to the fore, enhanced solutions around Virtualisation and IT security solutions for enterprises as well as IT/Cyber Security trainings for IT administrators and regular users that utilise enterprise systems. Aside all these, they are positioning their Cloud infrastructure (both private and public) as well as digital transformation as the best-fit for the Nigerian market. The company has been lauded as being innovative in their solutions offerings that has brought respite to the premium segment of the market. Zeta-Web Nigeria Limited have designed enterprise solutions for businesses and large corporate organisations like banks, government establishments and large business conglomerates and their aim is to fill the gap of quality ICT Service Integration and Services by designing, implementing, operating and managing high-end enterprise networks, data center technologies and applications for their customers’ specific needs.