Ferdinand Ekechukwu FoodbayTV, an African food TV platform, which showcases healthy African food and lifestyle, closed the year 2020 with its new and exciting docu-reality series, ‘Dining with Stars’. It gave fans the much-coveted opportunity of a premium personal dining experience with their favourite celebrities. The lifestyle platform kicked off a campaign on social media with the hashtags #WishUponTheStars and #AChristmasLikeNeverBefore. Hundreds of interested fans responded to the call and from this crop, 12 fans were picked, three for each star that was featured. The maiden season featured four celebrities, music artistes Innocent ‘2Baba’ Idibia and Yemi Alade, actress Toyin Abraham, and Big Brother Naija Lockdown winner, Laycon. Each set of fans had unique experiences with their fans as they dined with their favorite stars to dishes made with the help of Chef Miyonse. From spa pampering sessions, Santa Toyin Abraham’s gifts, a day in the life of 2Baba, to vibing with Yemi Alade on screen and some intellectual banter with Laycon, the fans all attested to a truly wonderful time. Speaking on the initiative, the Group Managing Director of Maxima Productions, Femi Ogundoro, said, “For FoodbayTV, 2020 might have been a funny year, but we’re happy that when this set of fans think of 2020, they’ll remember and reflect on the ‘Dining With The Stars’ experience as something good and memorable from this year. “We are proud to have played a role in making their dreams come true. We look forward to a wonderful New Year, and to a grander second season where we will make more dreams come true.” Devon Kings and Coca-Cola supported the initiative and lauded the platform for putting smiles on people’s faces during a difficult period. According to Brand Manager for Devon Kings, Toyin Popoola-Dania, “The meals they dined on were prepared with our products – seasoning, vegetable oil and margarine – and this made the experience deliciously special. We are glad to have been a part of feeding their smiles.” The Connection and Media Manager for Coca Cola, Omomeda Ashofor added: “At this time of the year, Coca Cola cares about seeing to it that wherever there is a bottle of Coca Cola, there’s joy, sharing and togetherness. It is clear to see that we did very well on those counts. The show was a success and for the fans, the saying ‘All’s well that ends well’ held true for them in light of 2020.”