9mobile has reassured its enterprise customers of improved Quality of Service (QoS) on its network in 2021. This reassurance was given during the telco’s Enterprise Customer forum 2020, held in Port Harcourt recently. The forum was designed to appreciate customers for their loyalty while receiving their feedback for better service response. Speaking at the event, a statement quoted the Chief Commercial Officer of 9mobile, Stjepan Udovicic, to have commended the partners for their commitment, support and patronage while also assuring them of more robust plans and projections 9mobile has put in place to offer more quality products and services. According to him, “we are committed to take our network engineering and product capabilities to greater levels in 2021 and beyond so that we are able to support you more effectively. Your feedback is very crucial to us in order to service you better in the incoming year.” Udovicic, maintained that 9mobile’s projection was to have better collaboration with enterprise customers, noting that, “the telecommunications industry is an innovative one; therefore, there is need to be more specific and deliberate in service delivery. “We are going to have lots of customisation, where enterprises can customise solutions that meet their needs and satisfy their unique industries based on feedback. “We will prioritise Internet of Things (IOT), machine learning, artificial intelligence, new technologies around 5G exploration in different parts of the country.” Also, 9mobile’s Head of Enterprise Sales, Mr. Olalekan Fatusa, said customers should look forward to more collaborative engagements from 9mobile, as the industry was becoming more innovative, deliberate and need specific. Responding to a wide range of comments from customers, Fatusa assured that all feedback will be prioritized responding to the issues highlighted both in the region and in other parts of the country.” Martins Ojugbeli, 9mobile Regional Head, South-South, said the event was also organised to recognise and appreciate their corporate customers for their support and patronage, for which the brand was promising to reciprocate through improved customer experience on our network.