Michael Olugbode Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, yesterday signed into law the 2021 Appropriation Bill passed by the state House of Assembly. The budget was, however, increased to N248 billion by the state Assembly from the earlier sum of N208 billion the governor proposed sometimes in December last year. While increasing the budget, the Assembly explained that it was with the purpose of catering for industrial projects by the state plastic industry and the Maiduguri International Hotel among other provision, which it promised to be made public soon. Zulum had in his initial presentation proposed N135.1 billion for capital projects, which represented 65 percent of the budget sum, and N72 billion for recurrent expenditure. The governor, while signing the budget yesterday at the council chamber of the Government House in Maiduguri, the state capital, charged all ministries, agencies and departments (MDAs) of the government to comply strictly with the provisions of the 2021 budget. He also directed his cabinet members to accelerate activities in their ministries for the people of the state to derive maximum benefit. Zulum expressed appreciation to the leadership and members of the state House of Assembly for their cooperation with the executive arm of the government. The governor explained that in 2021, his administration would sustain its priority on security, education, healthcare, agriculture, provision of portable water as well as reconstruction, rehabilitation and resettlement of internally displaced persons (IDPs) and refugees. The Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Abdulkarim Lawan, had earlier explained that increase of the budget from N208 billion to N248 billion was to cater for the industrial growth that will increase job opportunities in the state. The state Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice, Kaka-Shehu Lawan, conducted the signing ceremony, noting that the governor’s assent was a constitutional requirement for the bill passed by the Assembly to become law of the state.