By Chuks Okocha The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Prince Uche Secondus has urged Nigerians to put all hands on deck in the New Year to save our democracy and the nation from destruction. This is as the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) urged governments across all levels to rise “gallantly” to address Nigeria’s security and socio-economic challenges. Secondus said the call has become necessary as it’s now very obvious that the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari is grossly incapacitated to lift the country out of the woods. According to him, in a new year message from his media office, only concerted efforts from all lovers of democracy irrespective of their political, religious and tribal inclinations rising in a rare patriotic stance can rescue this country. “The destruction done to this country in the 67 months of the reign of President Buhari and his APC, can only be restored if all patriots irrespective of leanings rise to the challenge by putting their differences aside for the nation. The PDP boss noted that the state of the nation could be better than what it is in the out-going year and it is the responsibility of leaders to strive to put things in a satisfactory manner. Also, CAN in a ‘New Year 2021 Message’ signed by its president, Dr. Samson Ayokunle, yesterday urged the government to consult on the best ways to end insecurity in the country. He said, “I urge all those in political power in our nation to lead with humility by listening to Godly admonition because their wisdom alone may not be enough to reposition our nation, especially, to restore our security and bring about peace and prosperity presently eluding our nation. Banditry, herdsmen attack, armed robbery, and other anti-social activities in our nation are dents on the leadership of our nation. Though, we understand that leadership is tough and sympathise with those in power, Nigerians at the same time expect that leadership would rise more gallantly to address our near horrible socio-economic situation in this nation which is almost crippling us. He urged Nigerians to obey COVID-19 protocols. Ayokunle added, “I congratulate everyone of us whom God has spared to see this New Year in the midst of the dreadful and devastating coronavirus that ravaged our world and sent many people to early graves more than any war in the recent past. The high and the low really fell in 2020. “I plead with all of us to please observe all the COVID-19 protocols this year. Maintain social distancing, do handwashing or use sanitiser. Make sure you always wear your face mask whenever you are out from your house until we all together, under God, wipe away this wicked virus from the face of the earth. Avoid frivolous traveling meanwhile and use virtual meetings where possible for your safety.”