Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Bauchi State Government has reaffirmed its commitment towards restoring the lost glory of education through sound approach of revitalising the sector. Governor Bala Mohammed disclosed this at the 40th anniversary and annual general meeting of Government Secondary School, Duguri, organised by Duguri Old Boys Association at the school premises. Mohammed, who was represented by the Chief of Staff, Government House, Bauchi, Dr. Ladan Salihu, said his administration is ready to take all the necessary measures to ensure improvement in the sector. He said the administration will continue to work with critical stakeholders to enhance the capacity of teachers to ensure the provision of quality education to students. The governor said the state government has recorded remarkable achievements in the sector through upgrading, renovation and construction of schools across the state, adding, “I want to assure you that my administration is not only interested in education, but will work assiduously to ensure improvement in the sector by reducing the number of out of school children in the state. “My administration is fulfilling its promises of restoring the lost glory of education. We have renovated a number of schools and we will continue to do that.” He therefore urged parents to support the education of their children to enable them become useful members of the society.
Also speaking, the state Commissioner for Education, Dr. Aliyu Tilde said his ministry is working hard to sanitise the system by ensuring that teachers are discharging their assigned responsibilities accordingly. He said the current administration is committed to restoring the lost glory of public schools in the state, and appealed to the association to support government in repositioning education for effective service delivery. In a remark, the first Principal of the School, Ibrahim Yakubu Hamza tasked members of the association to contribute towards tackling the numerous challenges facing the school. The acting Chairman of the ssociation, Dahiru Mohammed Jamda appealed to the state government to consider upgrading the status of the school for the educational development of the area. During the programme, the association honoured the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Domestic, Adamu Bunun Duguri, Governor’s ADC, Sunusi Dan Kasuwa, member representing Duguri/Gwana in the State House of Assembly, Bala Mohammed Dan, among others with awards of excellence ?nsd1! in recognition of their contributions to the progress and development of the school.