 Tobi Soniyi The lawmaker representing Anambra South, Senator Ifeanyi Ubah and the Anambra Progressives Development Union (APDU) have kick-started a move to create over 25,000 jobs for unemployed youths in the state with the launch of an industrial park in Eziama, Amichi in Nnewi South Local Government Area (LGA). The initiative, which includes an Inland Bonded Terminal, the promoters said, would address youth restiveness in the district. At the ground breaking and foundation laying ceremony of the project yesterday, the people of Amichi welcomed the project with jubilation. The residents could not hold back their  joy as the  APDU kicked off the construction of the proposed Industrial City and Inland/Bonded terminal in the area. The union, which is convened by Ubah,  gathered in the community for the ground breaking and foundation laying ceremony of the project as they moved to trigger the economic revival of the state through industrialisation and assimilation of the teeming jobless youths. The union is a group of prominent citizens convened by  Ubah to contribute towards the development of various sectors of the Anambra economy. The group, which has over three hundred and ninety billionaires as members has, so far, within a period of ten months, constructed two ultramodern medical and isolation centres at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital (Permanent Site) Nnewi-Oraifite and Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. Both facilities have been commissioned and handed over to the managements of both institutions respectively. Members of the union also used the opportunity to reassure the community and Anambrarians in general that they would never relent in their commitment to better their welfare and develop various sectors of the economy. Speaking at the epic event, the group’s convener, Ubah thanked the progressives for their uncommon drive which he said would not only go a long way in attracting various developmental projects to the community but also attract over twenty five thousand jobs to the communities in Anambra State, in particular and, by extension, the entire South East region. The Senator further said that the project, which is first of its kind in the South East would promote their wellbeing and empower the people. He also revealed that the industrial city would have standard residential quarters/dormitories for the staff and workers in order to maintain a good standard of living and increase the expected output of the workforce. According to him,  the inland terminal would minimize the challenges faced by many businesses and consequently will reduce cost, increase turnover and promote the economic revival of the fortunes of the state.  He also urged the community “to protect the projects. I wish to also give special thanks to the progressive members who are great sons of Amichi notable amongst whom are Chief Akai Egwuonwu (CEO Anambra Rice Mills Ltd and C.E.O of Chisco Transport, Chief Chidi Anyaegbu, MFR for their efforts in bringing this novel and life changing idea into a reality.  In his remarks, the traditional ruler of the community His Royal Highness Barrister Dr. Ofobuike Alphonsus Ezeoke thanked Ubah and the progressives for choosing the community as the site of the projects.  He further said that with the projects, Amichi would be opened to various investors and a development, he said, would go a long way in maximizing employment opportunities and improving the welfare of the people.  The Igwe, who couldn’t hide his joy, also reassured the progressives that the community would forever remain grateful to them and also promised to protect the projects.  Also speaking during the event, the President-General of Eziama, Chief Cletus Igbokwe, thanked  Ubah and the orogressives for making the giant move.  Igbokwe also maintained that the projects would go a long way in easing the challenges of the community especially youth restiveness.  He added that the project would generate  massive employments in addition to attracting  investors to the area. He also reassured the progressives that the community would ever remain grateful and urged them to keep up the good works.