Kasim Sumaina in Abuja A mobile money operator, PalmPay is set to reward thousands of Nigerians who transact on its payments app by January 18th with a N50 million reward scheme. PalmPay noted that the New Year festival promo was designed to encourage and reward transactions such as bank transfers, airtime recharge and bill payments carried out on the platform. According to the Chief Marketing Officer of PalmPay, Sofia Zab, “The PalmPay New Year Festival is our biggest giveaway yet. We are known as ‘The Payment App That Rewards You’ and we are living up to our tagline with every transaction made.” Zab, while speaking in Abuja yesterday, stated that any Nigerian adult could qualify for the scheme. She said as part of the promotion, every completed transaction would give users a chance of winning either a discount coupon valued up to N50 or a “Festival Badge”. “All customers who collect at least one of each of the five badge designs by the January 18th deadline will automatically qualify for a share of the prize pool and take home between N400-N6000 each,” she said. She added: “Interestingly, users of the PalmPay app also benefit from free bank transfers, zero fees on e-wallet deposits or bill payments, and receive discounts and cashback on all airtime, bills and data purchases. “We have hundreds of thousands of customers that use the PalmPay app every day because of the value it brings to them and we look forward to welcoming more Nigerians to the PalmPay family through this promotion.” Speaking further, she said that company, in December, ran a similar campaign called the PalmPay Carnival, where over 17,000 customers won N20 million. She explained that company entered the Nigerian market in September 2019, and has grown rapidly to reach a customer base of over two million, adding that over the last six months, it has experienced ten-fold increase in daily transaction volume. This was fueled by the growth in digital payments brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. She said the app enjoys rave reviews on the Google Play Store, where it has a market-leading 4.4* rating and that it is a must have for every Nigerian. “It helps you save a lot on airtime with various discounts and bonuses. You can even purchase some items from there at a discounted price.”