Davidson Iriekpen Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, yesterday again told the All Progressives Congress (APC) to be ready to handover to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023. Wike urged the ruling party to prepare its handover notes at the federal level for the PDP. The governor boasted that Nigerians were earnestly waiting for the PDP to take over power in order to ensure good governance in the country. Wike spoke yesterday at the inauguration of the 11.53-kilometre Agbonchai-Afam road, connecting Eleme and Oyigbo Local Government Areas and performed by the former Senate Majority Leader, Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume. The governor in a statement signed by his Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said PDP had continued to satisfy the increased yearnings of Nigerians for good governance, improved economy and developmental projects in its various states. He said: “Eleme people, I want to sincerely thank you for the support that you’ve given to me and the PDP. Do not relent. Continue because the hope of this country depends on PDP.” He said the PDP was working in Rivers and its various controlled states, insisting that the party would kick out the APC at the centre. He urged Senator Ndume and the APC to respect the wishes of Nigerians, who were determined to return the PDP to power in 2023. He said: “To our special Guest of Honour (Ndume), he should not be angry because we are taking over from them. When they came, we didn’t fight, they took over. Now, that Nigerians have decided to change them, let them also hand over to us as quickly as possible without any fight.” The governor expressed happiness for fulfilling the promise of reconstructing the Eleme-Afam road when he campaigned in the area saying the completed road would serve as an alternative route to neighbouring states. Wike also said his administration completely rebuilt the Government Secondary School in Onne Town with the one in Eteo reaching finishing level. He said: “Today, we are in Eleme commissioning Agbonchia (in Eleme)-Afam in Oyigbo Local Government Road. This road traverses two Local Government Areas. Nobody will say that we have not come to Rivers East Senatorial District to do anything. “As I speak to you now, by the end of this month, we are coming back to Alesa Secondary School and Ascension High School. Those schools will be rebuilt completely. “And because you gave me a good, reliable and trusted person who is my Commissioner of Finance, there is this other road here that needs attention, I will reconstruct it.” In his remarks, Ndume, who inaugurated the 11.53km road, said he felt truly humbled to perform the task and be part of Wike’s achievements. Ndume described governor Wike as a true nationalist and an important voice in national affairs across parties adding that the governor was famous for speaking truth to power. He said: “Governor Wike is my very good friend, a trusted leader, a very honest person. One thing we have in common is that, as a leader, you must stand out and speak the truth even if you’re alone and Wike is known for that. “There is new hope for the state and he is Wike. Now, Rivers is not only becoming a Garden City again but it is becoming a Golden City. May God continue to give you (Wike) the strength. “And from today, know that you’re a leader in this country. If you’re not a friend and a nationalist, I will not be here, Fayemi will not be here and many other APC Governors. “You’re one of the true Nigerians that I ever know. And if we have people like you that speak the truth to power, Nigeria would have been better off for all of us.” Ndume commended Wike for his feat in the fight against insecurity in Rivers, which he said gave the people the liberty to come out to participate in the inauguration without fear. He said: “You don’t know what you have until you lose it. What you’re doing here, we will never try it in Borno State. You can’t invite people like this and everybody, comfortably, listening to somebody speaking without looking around. So, we have to thank God. “Honestly, let me say here that Nigeria is lucky to have not only Rivers State but Rivers people. South-South, particularly the Rivers people are the great people of Nigeria. What you’re giving to this country; if Rivers is not there, Nigeria will not be there.” Rivers State Commissioner for Works, Elloka Tasie-Amadi, said hitherto, the road was a nightmare. “But, today it is something that brings joy and with it, the obvious tangible and psychological benefits that come with any good transportation access to any location or
locality. “This is an 11.53km long road project, 8.5m wide with 7km of drainage. It connects Eleme in Eleme LGA to Afam in Oyigbo LGA, a very good and useful road in the movement of farm produce and pursuit of local trade,” he said.