Bennett Oghifo The League of African Development Students (LEADS) Africa has inducted respected philanthropist, realtor and founder, Esso Properties Limited, Mr. Smith Sosochukwuma Ezenagu into its Hall of Fame.
The induction, which took place on January 11th, 2020 at the headquarters of Esso Properties Limited in Lagos, also saw Ezenagu bagging two other awards, Corporate Endorsement Merit Award and Africa’s Patriotic Personality of the Year award. While presenting one of the awards, Tankou Patrique, who is from Cameroun and also the Regional Rep. (Francophone) of LEADS Africa said Ezenagu was inducted into the body’s Hall of Fame because he had been consistent and dedicated. He said, ‘’In terms of proficiency in corporate leadership, and other assignments/ideas generation and Implementation, Mr. Ezenagu has proven to be sagacious, ingenious and possess a rare and exquisite; equipping him for the immense and outstanding services he has hitherto rendered to Africa’s Quest for Property Development, especially with varied Property Acquisition plans for wide array of Classes of Nigerians and oversight capacities, contributing immensely to Self-Reliance in Real Consults in Nigeria/Africa, at such a time that his germane erudition fused with his unparalleled commitment to 21st Century compliant leadership, philanthropy, community development and public service are the most important pathway to achieving the Africa Vision 2063. ‘’Today, the entire Africa is reaping the dividends of his dedication, brilliance and effectiveness as a top-notch Patriotic Developer for Nation Building.’’
Other delegates of LEADS Africa that were at the event were, Sandra Okpegbuo, Head of Gender, LEADS Nigeria and Abayomi Okuwoga, Director of Logistics. The awardee said he was always dedicated and focused, advising the youths to imbibe those virtues, adding that if they did, they would always excel in their areas of endeavor.
Mr. Ezenagu holds a Bachelor of Business Administration – BBA from Ecole Superieure Sainte Felicite Univerity, Cotonou in Republic of Benin – 2018; Master of Business Administration – MBA, from the Rome Business School Lagos, in addition to other Qualifications and Certifications. He has also founded The Esso Properties Academy, a real estate training institute, one of its rare kinds in the country with a futuristic approach to the real industry. This is sequel to his corporate antecedence in Financial Management and training, superintending a company which grew to partner with four financial institutions in Hong Kong, Dubai, Israel and London, and still reputed as one of the leading e-commerce firms.