By James Sowole The Ondo State Governor, Mr Oluwarotimi Aketedolu SAN, yesterday described the death o his Chief of Protocol, Mr. Todin Ogunbodede, as a personal loss. Akeredolu’s comment came as the Convener of the Non-Indigenes for Aketi Season Two, Hi. Austine Medaiyetu, described the death of Ogunbode, as painful exit. Ogunbodede died late Saturday following a fatal accident on Ikesha Akure Road along with his driver, when the vehicle in which he was travelling, rammed into a truck. The governor’s comment was contained in a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo. He said: “For Governor Akeredolu, this is a personal loss. It becomes more emotional when it’s recalled that the loyal and dedicated Tosin stopped by at the Governor’s Law Hub, Ibadan, to greet his principal while returning to Akure from his uncle’s residence. “Even with a heavy heart, Akeredolu enjoins all to take solace in the fact of God’s infallibility-He giveth and taketh. This is just as he expresses the heartfelt condolence of his immediate family, government and the good people of Ondo State to the wife, children as well as the family of his late CoP.” Ojogo disclosed that the remains of the late CoP would arrive Owo, his hometown yesterday in order to commence preparations for his burial without further delay. He said the late CoP died in a fatal car crash after a private visit to an uncle in Ibadan, Professor Benjamin Ogunbodede who has been ill for sometime. He added that Ogunbodede died alongside his driver after the private Toyota Corola car that conveyed them rammed into a trailer. The sad incident occured at about 7.45 p.m. along Ilesa-Akure road on Saturday, January 2, 2020. “Ogunbodede discharged his assigned duties with utmost attention and responsibility. Until his untimely death, he had been a very loyal political lieutenant of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN over the years,” he said. Extolling the virtues of the late Ogunbodede, Medaiyese said the deceased facilitated his first meeting with Akeredolu at the beginning of the campaign for his re-election. “Tosin Ogunbodede was a very straightforward person. He was a man of his words. He never allowed the power of office to affect his relationship with people. Whenever I called him, he often replied me with this words of encouragement.” Medaiyese prayed that God grant Mr. governor and his family the fortitude to bear this irreparable lost.