Softwork XYZ, a technology platform that connects employers and softworkers on a single platform, has upgraded its platform by adding additional features that will make it a lot more flexible to search and find qualified freelancers otherwise known as softworkers, for executions. Through Softwork platform, businesses and individuals can hire freelancers with technology skills like Graphics Designing, Website and Mobile App Development, as well as Digital Marketing. The technology skills spans across Android App Developer, iOS App Developer, E-Commerce Developer, Java Developer, as well as developers in Font-End, 3D Animator, Adobe After Effects, Blog Writters, Influencer Marketing, Content Marketing, among other digital skills. Speaking at the re-launch of the upgraded platform, the Founder/CEO of Softwork XYX, Mr. Chigozie Okwara, said: “We are quick to match people to employers. We connect employers with freelancers for projects so they can grow and improve. It’s almost like outsourcing, but better. Unlike using full time employees, you can hire based on skill set.” He described softworkers as people who are self-employed professionals that are registered in the Softwork XYZ platform to get work done for companies of all sizes. According to him, people chose to be a freelancer because it’s their passion and they develop marketable skills while creating their own schedule. “Softwork is the bridge between the talented and those in need of certain skills. Our platform removes the worries both clients and freelancers may have. We have various skills such as; web designers, app developers, writers,video editors, music promotion, among other skills set. “This flexibility creates better work-life balance for freelancers and increases the quality and speed of service delivery for businesses,” Okwara said. With over 5,000 softworkers that are registered on the platform, Softwork maintains a healthy work relation between softworkers and employers and ensures that jobs are executed and remuneration made available at the completion of job, Okwara added. Marketing Manager, Softwork, Mr. Light Nwokocha, said their concerted effort was to serve both freelancers and employers well. He added that the platform would attract and encourage more Nigerian youths to develop themselves for better jobs, as employers seek the best of talents to execute jobs.