Irrespective of background, age, or gender, diligence, and brilliance always shine. As a new year begins, Patricia Obozuwa’s attentive and persistent efforts have already landed her an upper-level role in the African division of the world’s largest beverage company, Coca-Cola. Obozuwa recently disclosed the good news that she has been assigned a top leadership role in Coca-Cola Africa: Vice President, Government Affairs, Communications & Sustainability for Africa. Thus, it is expected that Obozuwa will actively participate in the various sustainability programmes that Coca Cola in Africa is set to do. Thus, Obozuwa is likely to assist in the delivery of the following social programmes of Coca Cola in Africa: improving access to water; Ekocentre (which provides renewable energy, safe drinking water, internet services, other essential resources, and a meeting place, for Africans in rural areas); healthcare; sports; sustainable packaging of Coca Cola products; and youth development. Thankfully, Obozuwa is experienced in these and more. Obozuwa has made a name for herself as a corporate Amazon. Until her recent appointment into Coca-Cola in Africa, she was the Chief Communications & Public Affairs Officer for General Electric (GE) Africa, a chair she has maintained since 2012. Before then, Obozuwa was the head, External Relations, Nigeria and Corporate Communication Leader, sub-Saharan Africa at Procter & Gamble (P&G) —another chair she maintained for seven years. Obozuwa’s approach to leadership and accomplishments in P&G led to her appointment in GE, and her work at GE (including how she established ‘GE Lagos Garage,’ a hub for advanced manufacturing skills development that has produced over 600 graduates in Nigeria to date) pushed her towards the frontiers for all visionary organisations to see. And Coca-Cola was the first to grab her.
Obozuwa is a smart and innovative leader. Her emphasis on African growth through youth development and information and technology has helped her get footholds in Nigeria, Kenya, Mozambique, Ethiopia, Ghana, Tanzania, Angola, and other Francophone West African countries.
These and more are what Coca-Cola saw and appointed her ahead of others.