By Benjamin Nworie Unknown gunmen at the weekend attacked a police station in Ebonyi State, killing three officers. Two others sustained bullet wounds in the attack on Onueke Police Station in Ezza South Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that the policemen were attacked by suspected hoodlums who stormed the police station in the night. It was learnt that the slain officers were two inspectors and one female who was relaxing in her room when the hoodlums struck. The attackers reportedly carted away two AK 47 rifles from the affected police station. Police spokesman in the state, Loveth Oda, confirmed the incident. She explained that corpses of the slain officers had been deposited in a mortuary while the two who sustained bullet wounds were receiving treatment. Odah urged the public to provide the police with information that could lead to the arrest of the attackers. “Yes, three policemen were killed in the attack. We don’t know the identity of the attackers yet; and we are calling on the general public to provide information to the police in order to hunt down the perpetrators of this heinous crime”, Odah said. The attack was similar to the ones that happened during #EndSARS protests in the state. The state Commissioner of Police, Philip Maku reportedly visited the Onueke Police Station Saturday morning to ascertain the level of havoc done by the hoodlums. He was reported to have vowed to fish out the perpetrators. Residents of the area were living in palpable fear as policemen were said to be carrying out mass arrest in the area. Sources from the area also said that there was no misunderstanding between the police and the people of the area prior to the attack However, the Commissioner for Internal Security in the state, Mr. Stanley Okoroemegha, said the government was saddened by the incident. Okoroemegha gave security agencies forty-eight hours to brief the government on how such a breach could have occurred without any intelligence to forestall it