By Michael Olugbode Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, has supervised the enrollment of 1,163 children of internally displaced persons (IDPs) into primary school in one of the insurgency ravaged towns in the state. The governor, as part of his visit to Damasak, the headquarters of Mobbar Local Government Area, where he boosted dry season farming with provision of equipment to farmers and distribution of relief materials to over 10,000 IDPs, yesterday, personally supervised the enrollment of the pupils in the town along the shores of Lake Chad. The governor, who was on the third day of his visit to Mobbar LGA, enrolled the pupils, who are mostly hailed from Guzamala and Abadam LGA in the northern part of Borno State. The pupils had been out of school since the displacement of their parents and guardians by Boko Haram insurgents, following attacks on their communities. During the exercise, Zulum appealed to parents to allow their children enroll in schools, stressing that where functional schools are provided by government, social welfare assistance from government will eventually be restricted to parents who allow their children and wards to attend schools whether western or combined curriculum of Islamic and western education. The governor also addressed secondary school students in Damasak and those who have written their senior schools certificate examinations in preparation for higher institution. He promised them government’s support to help them actualise their dreams in life. The governor had traveled to Damasak last Saturday morning, during which he launched the distribution of water pumps, fertilizer, seeds, chemicals and N5,000 cash to each of the 1,200 irrigation farmers embarking on farming this dry season. The following day, the governor also supervised the distribution of food combination to 10,000 internally displaced families in need of support. The governor had visited the area with Senator Abubakar Kyari, the senator representing Borno North, who is also an indigene of Damasak. Also in the trip was the state Caretaker Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ali Bukar Dalori; Commissioner for Agriculture, Bukar Talba, and other stakeholders from the area.