Emmanuel Ugwu-Nwogo in Umuahia Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, has urged the residents of the commercial city of Aba to cultivate the culture of using public infrastructure in a responsible manner. He made the call at the weekend when he inaugurated four roads at the central business area of Aba in continuation of his ongoing drive to drastically reduce the infrastructure deficit in the commercial city. The governor brought the Prelate and Moderator of the Presbyterian Church of Nigeria, His Eminence Nzie Nsi Eke, to inaugurate the four roads-Milverton, Eziukwu, Ojike and Chisco link Roads, all in Aba South Local Government Area. He decried the irresponsible manner in which some people willfully destroy roads and other public infrastructure built by the government with public funds for use by the people. Ikpeazu warned against the practice of burning tyres on the road, dumping of waste materials on roads and water channels as well as unilateral cutting of roads for flimsy reasons. “Nobody should destroy these roads,” he cautioned residents, adding that the roads were built to last at least 30 years and have high economic value to Aba, given their strategic location at the heart of the city. Ikpeazu, who was born and bred in Aba, reminded the residents of the Enyimba city how Milverton and Eziukwu Roads used to be clogged with wastes thereby causing total collapse of the roads, hence they should not repeat what happened in the past. He called for proper waste management in Aba, and directed the Abia State Environmental Protection Agency (ASEPA) to set up environmental task force at the Milverton/Eziukwu axis to checkmate people from destroying the roads and blocking the drainages. The organised private sector and the entire business community accepted the challenge to stop people from engaging in destructive activities on the roads and maintaining clean environment in order to prolong the life span of the roads. Speaking on behalf of banks operating in the area, the Branch Manager of Access Bank, Mr. Jude Ezugwu, commended the governor for rebuilding the collapsed roads, noting that by doing so, he has “succeeded in boosting the economic activities of Aba.” Also, the Chairman of Luxury Bus Owners Association, Mr. Jerry Ani, commended Ikpeazu for working very hard to reverse the infrastructure deficit of Aba. According to him, “Enyimba city would have gone far in infrastructural development if other past governors had done what Ikpeazu is doing today.”