Hero MotoCorp said it has surpassed its milestone of 100 Million (10 Crores) units in cumulative production. The company also said it has been at the fore-front of providing mobility to the aspiration of millions around the world, adding that the achievement of this milestone was the success of evolving engineering, operational excellence and sustainable practices. “It is also the success of the holistic ecosystem built on trust and belief that has grown along with this company. Most importantly, this is a celebration of the customers who continue to shower their love and faith on Hero,” a statement from the company explained. “This significant landmark is also an affirmation of the inherent capabilities in India and Hero’s Brand appeal. “We have been making in India, for the world – and this milestone is an acknowledgment of the customers’ preference for Hero across geographies, demographics and generations. “We are going to continue to ride our growth journey. In keeping with our Vision to ‘Be the Future of Mobility’ we will be launching a host of new motorcycles & scooters over the next five years, in addition to expanding our global footprint. We will also continue to invest in R&D and focus on new mobility solutions,” the Chairman/CEO, Hero MotoCorp, Dr. Pawan Munjal, was quoted to have added. It stated that Hero MotoCorp’s achievement of the landmark was one of the fastest global achievements of the 100 million cumulative production mark, with the last 50 Million units coming in a span of just seven years. “Focused on Sustainable Growth, Hero MotoCorp has been building value for communities across the globe and acting as an economic multiplier with its sales, R&D and manufacturing ecosystems. It also continuously works towards the progress of the societies it operates in,” it added. To mark the occasion, Munjal unveiled six special celebration edition models at the Company’s manufacturing facility at Gurugram, located in the National Capital Region (NCR) of Delhi. Addressing a global audience including customers, dealers, distributors, investors, suppliers, employees, customers and the media, Munjal also outlined Hero MotoCorp’s plans and vision for the next five years. “During this timeframe, the company will aim to further consolidate its leadership position, expand its global footprint, launch exciting and relevant products and also work on new innovative product concepts,” he said.