Uche Nnaike The Lagos and Enugu State Governments have announced January 18, 2021, as resumption date for all public and private schools in the states In Lagos, the Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, announced this in a statement by the Head, Public Affairs, Ministry of Education, Kayode Abayomi. In the statement titled, ‘All public and private schools in Lagos State to resume 18th January 2021’, schools were also asked to make virtual learning available. She said this was in line with the federal government’s directive coupled with the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. “All public and private schools below the tertiary level in Lagos State should be reopened for the second term 2020/21 academic session from Monday, 18th of January, 2021. “Schools should have flexible plans where students and teachers who feel sick can teach or learn from home via available online platforms. Schools should also strive to avoid any COVID-19 infection among all students and staff,” the statement read in part. She also asked “all schools to make efforts to comply with all the outlined COVID-19 requirements for resumption of schools. “Not just for the improvement of overall school operations but for the safe reopening of academic activities to support the Lagos State Government’s quest for a full return.” The commissioner enjoined teachers, students, and visitors to wear facemasks at all times, observe physical distancing, embrace regular handwashing with soap under running water and maintain a high standard of personal hygiene within the school premises. In Enugu, a statement by the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Uche Eze, said the decision to resume on January 18 was reached at a meeting between the ministry and major stakeholders in the sector. Eze disclosed that all schools in the state were advised to ensure full compliance with the NCDC guidelines for the containment of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19), stressing that “the Ministry of Education will engage in constant monitoring of compliance when schools resume”. The Education commissioner added that “it was also decided that to help engage the students/pupils, all tertiary institutions, Basic and Post Basic schools are advised to activate their e-learning programmes.”