Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Spiritual Head and Chairman of the Holy Order of Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church (CSMC) Worldwide, Most Reverend Samuel Adefila Abidoye, has called on Nigerians to be cautious of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. He particularly charged churches across the country to strengthen the enforcement of strict adherence to all the COVID-19 protocols to include wearing of face masks, using of hand sanitizer, ensuring physical and social distancing among others. The cleric, who also enjoined Nigerians to pray over the challenges currently confronting the country as well as observe the COVID-19 protocols in order to flatten the curve of the ravaging virus, added: “We should also continue to seek the face of God over the challenges which the country is facing at the moment.” Delivering a condolence/goodwill message to the congregation of the Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church on Yandoka Road in Bauchi yesterday, the General Organiser (GO) of the Boys Brigade CSMC Worldwide, Most Senior Apostle Joseph Baoku, said: “We are here to condole with the church over the passing on of two of our members as well as deliver Baba Aladura, Most Reverend Samuel Adefila Abidoye’s goodwill message to the congregation in this trying time of our dear country.” According to him,” I am here with the District Organiser (DO) of Jos District and other members of our entourage to pay condolence visit to CSMC, Yandoka Road, in Bauchi over the demise of Matron of Boys Brigade fifth Bauchi Company CSMC, Special Mother in Israel, Beatrice A. Fayomi and the passing away of Officer Olaiya Oladeru’s wife. May their souls continue to rest peacefully in the bosom of our Lord. “Baba Aladura is asking us and all Nigerians not to relent or get tired of praying, especially at this trying time, so that God will heal the land of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic.” He urged all Nigerians, irrespective of their ethno-religious and political backgrounds, to live righteous lives without which, he argued, Nigeria would not make appreciable progress. ‘‘Therefore, I urge all Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of peace, tolerance, forgiveness, love and harmonious relationship among adherents of various faiths in the country,’’ the cleric said.