By Francis Sardauna The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has commenced plans to build 325 houses for communities in Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina State which were displaced by the 2018 flood. The housing scheme located in Farun Maje community, comprises schools, clinics, shops, security outposts, mosques and other basic social amenities. The Director-General of NEMA, AVM Muhammadu Muhammed (rtd), who unveiled this to journalists while inspecting the project site yesterday, said the project would be executed in collaboration with the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) through its Work Centre. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had on July 15, 2018, visited the flood-ravaged local government area to assess the level of damage caused by the natural disaster. The flood, which was caused by torrential rains on the Nigerian border with Niger Republic, killed more than 52 persons and destroyed thousands of houses in the border town, according to the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA). Muhammed, who was represented by the Director, Planning, Research and Forecasts of the agency, Kayode Fagbemi, explained that 325 households affected by the flood were expected to benefit from the two-bedroom planned houses. He reiterated that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved and provided money for the immediate commencement of the project in order to alleviate the predicaments bedevilling the victims of the natural disaster. According to him, “The NEMA team, comprising the federal government implementation team, is here for the relocation, reconstruction and resettlement of the people affected by flood in Jibia in 2018. “We had discussions with the Katsina State Government implementation team yesterday (Monday). The president has approved and provided the money for it, and we have secured a collaboration with the Nigerian Air Force Work Centre. “So, we are going to work in collaboration with the Nigerian Air Force to ensure that we build two-bedroom flats comprising 325 houses for the people that were displaced by the flood.” The NEMA boss also stated that President Buhari has also approved the implementation of a similar project for victims of flood in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Also speaking, the Katsina State Implementation Committee Chairperson, Halima Lawal, said the state government would work with NEMA to ensure the speedy implementation of the project. THISDAY learnt that the federal government implementation team consists of experts from the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, NEMA and the consultants.