By Obinna Chima First City Monument Bank Limited (FCMB) has appointed Yemisi Edun as the acting Chief Executive Officer of the bank. This followed the decision by the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Adam Nuru, to proceed on voluntary leave as the board investigates allegation of paternity scandal against him. The bank disclosed this on Wednesday. Edun holds a Bachelor’s degree in Chemistry from the University of Ife, Ile-Ife and a Master’s degree in International Accounting and Finance from the University of Liverpool, United Kingdom. She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and a CFA Charter holder. She is also an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers; an Associate Member of the Institute of Taxation of Nigeria; a Member of Information Systems Audit and Control, U.S.A; and a Certified Information Systems Auditor. She began her career with Akintola Williams Deloitte (member firm of Deloitte Touché Tohmatsu) in 1987, with main focus in Corporate Finance activities. She was also involved in audit of Banks and Other Financial Institutions. She joined FCMB in year 2000 as Divisional Head of Internal Audit and Control before assuming the role of Chief Financial Officer of the Bank and now as CEO The bank had in a public notice Tuesday, said Nuru proceeding on leave would guarantee the sanctity of the investigation. “We are aware of several stories circulating across several media platforms about our bank’s Managing Director Adam Nuru, a former employee, Mrs Moyo Thomas and her deceased husband, Mr. Tunde Thomas. “While this is a personal matter, the tragedy of the death of Mr. Tunde Thomas and the allegations of unethical conduct require the bank’s board to conduct a review of what transpired, any violations of our code of ethics and the adequacy of this code of ethics. This is already under way. “During the period of the review, the managing director has volunteered to proceed on leave. This will guarantee the sanctity of the review process. We enjoin all our stakeholders to bear with us as we conduct this review and to please respect the various families involved,” the statement had read. As at January 3, no fewer than 2,311 people had signed an online petition to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), calling for the sack of Nuru.