The graduate school of Pan-Atlantic University, Lagos Business School (LBS) has announced the appointment of Victor Banjo as its new Director of Executive Education. Effective January 1, 2021, Banjo became responsible for the department that manages Lagos Business School’s executive education. He will lead the strategic direction and marketing of executive programmes, open seminars and custom programmes. Before joining Lagos Business School, Banjo functioned as the Chief People Officer of Green Africa, where he led strategic people leadership and direction for a culturally diverse workforce as a member of the airline’s leadership team. His career in people management started with Spicers Limited in the United Kingdom as a regional training and development officer. He has also held the Human Resources leadership position (or its equivalent) at British American Tobacco, Virgin Group, Jagal Group, Oceanic Bank and developed/implemented HR strategy involving career management and succession planning, performance management and competency design. Banjo replaced Lilian Uwaeme who has led the ExecAutive Education team for nearly three years. He is a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development UK, with 21 years of experience as an accomplished human resources practitioner and business leader. On his plans for the Executive Education department, Banjo said, “I am excited to be joining Lagos Business School, the leader in executive education in Africa. I look forward to raising the bar of excellence that the school is known for through innovative, research-based business solutions developed from our deep knowledge of doing business in Africa”. Commenting on the appointment, Dean, Lagos Business School, Prof. Chris Ogbechie said, “As we begin the new year, our dedication to developing responsible business leaders remains unwavering. To achieve this goal and others, we must bring on experts who have a track record of success on our team and Victor Banjo’s achievements and professional reputation precede him.”