By Sylvester Idowu The Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, has appealed to Nigerians to take COVID-19 pandemic seriously, noting that the virus is real. Oborevwori, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Dennis, titled: ‘My COVID-19 Experience’, said he had been down with the virus, but he is now hale and hearty. Recounting his experience, Oborevwori, who is also the deputy chairman of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria, narrated: “Weeks ago, I experienced overt COVID-19 related symptoms, and promptly self-isolated before opting for COVID-19 test. “The test result came out positive, and medical officials began treatment. After some weeks and days of treatment, subsequent tests were run on me. I am grateful to God to announce that the last results came out negative. As it is, the symptoms are gone, and I am now hale and hearty. I want to specially thank God Almighty for restoring my health through the medical personnel who are doing a great job.” The Speaker expressed appreciation to the state Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, the first family and Deltans for their prayers, support and the unflinching demonstration of love to him during his trying time. Oborevwori used the opportunity to reaffirm that COVID-19 is real, advising Deltans and all residents in the state to diligently observe the prescribed protocols by the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC); the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 and the state government guidelines. Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria, Rt. Hon Abubakar Suleiman, has felicitated with Oborevwori for surviving COVID -19. He wrote in a message to his colleague entitled: ‘Mixture of Sorrow and Joy’ that: “We wish to sadly inform the Speakers that the Deputy Chairman of the Conference and Speaker of Delta State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, has been down with COVID-19. He tested positive some weeks ago and went for admission in a hospital in the state. Accordingly, we are glad to announce that he has recovered.”