Mary Nnah Leading manufacturer of home products, Aspira Nigeria Limited, last week, unveiled a new product, Viva Plus Laundry Sanitizer Detergent Powder to the members of the public in the commercial city of Kano. The grand launch, held at Tahir Guest Palace in the state capital, attracted customers, traders, key market drivers and the media. In his welcome address, Head of Marketing, Aspira Nigeria Limited, Mr. Santhosh Kumar Nair disclosed that the latest product had undergone all the necessary checks and was carefully manufactured to bring about a more hygienic and healthier society. He further said that the product was a result of the endless desire of the company to serve the society in better ways adding, “Our commitment to the society and to health care has expanded our product range to sanitisers, dish washers and dental health care products.” Nair recalled that Aspira Nigeria Limited has an unblemished reputation as the flagship of a number of market leading brands such as Viva, Sabil, Chic, Family Care Baby and Me amongst others while assuring that the new product would offer a fulfilling product- experience to customers. Aspira Nigeria Limited is one of the largest manufacturers and distributors of personal health care and laundry products in Nigeria. Located in the Northern commercial city of Kano, the company began operations in Nigeria in 2009, with the production of various ranges of detergents and bathing soaps. The Chairman, Aspira Nigeria Limited, Alhaji Ahmadu Danzago, said that the product couldn’t have entered the market at a more auspicious time, given the present global push for improved personal care and hygiene, including the need for a cleaner and safer environment. He appreciated the people of Nigeria, the company’s customers in particular, for their unshaken patronage and loyalty to their various range of products, while promising them a happy and prosperous relationship in the years to come. The Brand Ambassador, Aspira Nigeria Limited, Alhaji Sani Musa Danja, expressed profound delight at the unveiling of the new product, stating that the product launch was in line with the tradition of the company to break new grounds and deliver high- quality products to their customers. Danja, a leading celebrity in Nigeria and beyond, implored the people of the state and Nigerians in general to go for the latest product from the portfolio of Aspira Nigeria Limited as it is the best in the market. He assured them of a thrilling experience as the new product, in his words, “has been tested and proven to be of world class standard.” The Product Manager, Aspira Nigeria Limited, Mr. Ali Jammal revealed that in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country, the company decided to develop a detergent that could reduce the risk of spreading ill-causing bacteria, in addition to keeping clothes stain-free. He said that Viva Plus Laundry Sanitiser was the result of that courageous initiative. “The new Laundry Sanitizer was developed under multi-enzyme and eco- friendly technologies and contains zero percent bleach. It is gentle on fabrics and works even in cold water”, he added. Viva Plus Laundry Sanitiser Detergent Powder, Jammal said contains an advanced formula that removes tough stains and leaves a long-lasting fragrance while stating that, “It is specially designed to keep clothes bright and vivid, wash after wash”, adding that that the new product is available in four different variants, namely 51x85gm, 27x180gm, 13x380gm and 9x900gm. Speaking during the launch, Personnel Manager of the company, Alhaji Bala Adamu held that Aspira Nigeria Limited has since emerged as one of the fastest growing companies in Nigeria, becoming a market driver in the state, in the North and in some of the countries bordering Nigeria. “Aspira was established in 2009, since then we have expanded to 12 manufacturing facilities as of today. As I speak, we have created over 3000 jobs, and with our upcoming facilities, we hope to create more job opportunities with a vision of youth empowerment and to reduce unemployment rate,” Adam noted. The company’s huge success story, he added, could not have been possible without the support of the state government, partners, customers and members of the public.