Chinedu Eze
AJ Walters has emerged as preferred bidder for the establishment of aviation leasing company and Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) centre in Nigeria. The announcement was made by the Federal Ministry of Aviation, which explained that the Consortium of A J Walters Leasing Limited and Glovesly Pro-Project Limited emerged as the preferred bidders to establish the Aviation Leasing Company; while the Consortium of A J Walters Aviation Limited, EgyptAir Maintenance & Engineering (EGME) and Glovesly Pro-Project Limited emerged as the preferred bidder to establish the Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul Centre. The Ministry also explained that A J Walters Leasing (AJW Leasing) is the leasing subsidiary of A J Walter Group, adding that the company optimises airline fleet strategies by leasing aircraft engines and spare parts. “This flexible approach is particularly beneficial for small to medium sized airlines seeking to maintain competitive advantage, manage cash and strictly control operational costs for maximum profitability. AJ Walters Leasing manages a substantial portfolio of leases and has a customer base of 22 airlines in more than 20 countries. Glovesly Pro-Project Limited is an indigenous and integrated company incorporated under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The company has the capacity and the capability to contribute to the challenging and growing requirements in the aviation industry, communication, power sector, building construction, civil engineering, Road Construction and General procurement. The ALC will be structured as a Joint Venture (JV) between the federal government and the private investor. The business model would be, in the short term, to lease aircraft from international lessors and subsequently sub-lease to African airlines while long-term plan is to acquire, own and lease aircraft directly to African airlines,” the Ministry said. The statement further stated that AJ Walter Aviation Ltd provides supply, exchange, repair, and lease of commercial aircraft spare parts. Founded in 1961, the Company offers total repair process management; logistics, transport, engineering, and aircraft project management services to clients worldwide. “EgyptAir Maintenance & Engineering (EGME) is a Leading MRO in the Middle East and Africa offering Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) services to commercial aircraft, engines and components, with a customer base of over 81 airlines. “Glovesly Pro-Project Limited is an indigenous and integrated company incorporated under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The company has the capacity and the capability to contribute to the challenging and growing requirements in the aviation industry, communication, power sector, building construction, civil engineering, road construction and general procurement. The Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facility which will be sited at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, will also run through Public Private Partnership (PPP) using the Build, Operate and Transfer (BoT) model and will have the capacity to service both Narrow Body (Jet and Turboprop) and Wide Body aircraft,” the Ministry disclosed. Stakeholders Confirm Participation at AIB/LAAC Conference
Stakeholders in Nigeria’s aviation industry have confirmed that they would participate in the conference organised by the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), Nigeria’s sole accident investigation agency, in partnership with the League of Airport & Aviation Correspondents (LAAC). The event holds today in Lagos, with 70 stakeholders to attend physically and over 250 aviation industry professionals from across expected to participate virtually.
Those who have confirmed their physical participation include Engr. Akin Olateru, Commissioner/CEO, AIB; Capt Musa Nuhu, Director General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Agency (NCAA); Mr. George Uriesi, Managing Director, Ibom Air and Mr. Gbenga Olowo, President, Aviation Round Table. Dr. Harold Demuren, former Director General of NCAA has also confirmed that he will participate virtually. The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika is expected to be the Special Guest of Honour while Olateru will be the lead speaker. The Director General of NCAA will be the keynote speaker. The programme will feature a panel discussion session with representatives of Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) and other stakeholders on the panel. NAAPE President, Mr. Galadima Abadinego and NATCA President, Mr. Agoro have both confirmed they will be physically present at the event. AON has equally confirmed physical participation.
Air Traffic Controllers, airline operators, air traffic and aircraft engineers, pilots, representatives of aviation agencies, security agencies and other stakeholders from across the world are expected to participate in the conference virtually. Emirates Launches Global Sales to Inspire Nigerians Travellers
Emirates has launched its much-awaited global sale to inspire and enable Nigerians reconnect with family and friends as well as explore new destinations in the New Year.
The airline said Nigerians can now travel to London at a special price of N317, 655. The all-inclusive Economy Class fares to Manchester (UK) is N329, 875 and N313, 585 to Dubai.
Flights to Washington DC and Toronto are pegged at N378, 745 and N456, 120 respectively. Similarly, Business Class travel to London is fixed at N1, 478,320, Dubai is N1, 215,645, while flight to Washington DC has been discounted to N2, 260,240, and Toronto N2, 423,140.
With these offers, Emirates customers could make up for lost time in 2021, the airline stated. However, a statement explained that bookings have to be made between January 11, 2021, to January 25, 2021, for travels between January 11, 2021, and June 15, 2021.
“Emirates’ booking policies also offer customers flexibility and confidence to plan their travel. The Middle East carrier said customers who purchase an Emirates ticket for travel on or before June 30, 2021, can enjoy generous rebooking terms and options, if they have to change their travel plans. Customers have options to change their travel dates or extend their ticket validity for two years. . “Emirates Skywards, the loyalty programme of Emirates and flydubai, is also making sure members get the best out of their travels with special Cash + Miles rates. Bookings made from January 3 to 20, 2021, for travel between January 3 and 15 June 2021 can enjoy a special conversion offer where 2,000 Skywards Miles is equivalent to $20 for Economy Class flights; and 2,000 Skywards Miles is equivalent to $40 for First and Business Class flights. With no minimum number of Miles needed to spend, Skywards members can pay for part of their ticket’s cost with as little as one Mile,” it stated.