By Adibe Emenyonu The Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Ewuare II, has cautioned Enigies (Dukes), who are allegedly collaborating with youths in their communities to resuscitate the activities of banned Community Development Associations (CDAs), to desist from such plan. Oba Ewuare II warned that those trying to do so in different guises, if found flouting the ban on the activities of CDAs, would be made to face the wrath of the law and ancestral consequences. Upon ascending to the thrown of his forebears, one of the actions the Oba took was to ban activities of CDAs, which constituted obstacles to land developers, who were being extorted by community youths. The pronouncement by the Oba was backed with a law passed by the Edo State House of Assembly banning activities of CDAs across the state. Reacting to some issues raised by the Benin Christian community led by Rev Godspower Ogbomwan when they visited the Oba after a weeklong New Year prayer, the Benin monarch said the “resurging CDAs across the various communities in the Benin kingdom through different means will never see the light of the day.” He attributed the worsening security situation and other social vices in the country to deviation from family values, as well as traditional and cultural norms of the land, insisting that religious leaders must desist from practices which are inimical to societal growth. Commending the efforts of the Benin Christian community, the monarch posited that the palace would not renege in its prayers and other spiritual exercises for the good of the state. Noting that the achievements recorded so far in the Benin kingdom was due to the power of God and the ancestors, the Oba pointed out that he recognised the important role of prayers in ruling a kingdom. He urged the Christian community in the state not to relent in prayer to God to grant the country’s leaders at all levels wisdom and the ability to lead the people on the path of peace, unity and progress, adding that “the prevailing cases of cultism, kidnapping, arm robbery and insecurity are temptations to test our faith,” and admonished the people to be closer to God. Earlier, Ogbonmwan lauded the Benin monarch for his performances which he described as excellent within the short period he has been on the throne, noting that “the Oba’s reign has restored peace and tranquility in all the communities in the Benin kingdom.”