Yinka Kolawole, in Osogbo The Osun State Government heralded Year 2021 with massive pyrotechnics and fireworks across the state as part of efforts to rekindle the people’s hope in the New Year. The choice of fireworks display by the government was aimed at sending a message of hope to the citizens and residents of the state who experience the challenges and adverse effects of the Coronavirus pandemic that is ravaging the world. This is just as government ensured it was done in strict observance of COVID-19 protocols, as less than 20 persons participated in the exercise. Speaking during the fireworks display at Government House, Osogbo, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, who reiterated the administration’s commitment to people’s welfare and general well-being, said no stone would be left unturned to rekindle the citizens’ hope in Year 2021. He noted that the display was necessary as part of efforts to further demonstrate the love and commitment of the government to people’s welfare and wellbeing. Oyetola maintained that despite the socioeconomic challenges occasioned by the dreaded Coronavirus pandemic in the out-gone year, the pyrotechnics display was deliberately put together to instill confidence and hope in the residents that they have better days ahead not only in the New Year but also in the subsequent years ahead. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner of Youth and Sports, Yemi Lawal, said the initiative would go a long way to strengthen the bond of cooperation and support which the government has been receiving from the residents. Oyetola, who described people as the central nerve of the administration’s development agenda, noted that the administration would not relent in its effort to further anchor its programmes on the critical needs and aspirations of the citizenry. He attributed government’s resolve to allow the crossover and herald the New Year with fanfare as a necessity to identify with the people of the State and build prosperous and destiny-fulfilled years together. While disclosing the strategy employed to ensure the simultaneous display of the exercise across the nooks and crannies of the State, the Governor revealed that the fireworks display had taken place in 11 different locations across the state. Accordingly to him, similar exercise had been replicated in other 10 towns which are Ile-Ife, Ilesa, Ikirun, Ila, Ijebu-Jesha, Ede, Iwo, Ejigbo, Ikire and Iragbiji. “We are doing this as part of efforts to rekindle our people’s hope and celebrate the New Year in a way that will engender more hope, love, unity, harmony, cohesion and peaceful coexistence. “As we all know, Year 2020 had been quite challenging, but with the massive display of fireworks, it is our expectation that the New Year will be full of endless success, fulfilment and accomplishment. “This is to signify that all hands must be on deck to collectively rebuild our economy and reposition our State. “I want our people to know that we have entered a year of socioeconomic resurrection, massive infrastructural development and prosperity for all,” he added.