By Kuni Tyessi The Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) has dismissed a report on the alleged diversion of fund in the agency. A statement made available tojournalists in Abuja yesterday, which was signed by the Head of Media, Timothy Oduh, said all projects carried out in TRCN are properly budgeted for and executed to the letters. The statement said the TRCN’s Registrar, Prof. Josiah Ajiboye, has not only entrenched transparency in the running of the council’s affairs, but has also introduced various reforms and programmes that have received commendations from various bodies. According to him, “The allegations of diversion of funds are imaginary and figment of imagination of the writers. All projects carried out at TRCN are properly budgeted for and executed to the letters. “In the first instance, TRCN does not collect cash in all its operations. All payments to TRCN are done through government approved Remita platform. Consequently, no officer of TRCN deals with cash. Furthermore, all payments to individuals, contractors and government (CRF) are done through appropriate payment platforms of either GIFMIS or REMITA, hence, no loophole for diversion of any fund. “To say that Prof Ajiboye records at TRCN speaks volumes is an understatement. Firstly, he introduced the unique Professional Qualifying Examination (PQE) to TRCN which aims at regulating entry into the profession. “The PQE has now become a permanent programme on TRCN calendar with several tertiary institutions (federal, state and private) now running the examination. Not only that, Nigerians in diaspora are now enjoying the same examination from any country of their residence. “The introduction of the ‘New Career Path’ for teaching profession in Nigeria is unparalleled in Africa. This makes Nigeria the first country to have a separate career path for teacher professionalism and growth. It is needless to add that this new career path is what the federal government has adopted for the new welfare scheme for Nigeria teachers. “On assumption of office in TRCN, Ajiboye met a new emerging building at the TRCN headquarters at the DPC level. To the glory of God and the conscientiousness of the helmsman, the building was successfully completed and personally inaugurated on August 25, 2020, by the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, this is another testimonial to the forthrightness of Ajiboye.