Chuks Okocha in Abuja The war of words between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) continued yesterday with the main opposition party accusing the Muhammadu Buhari presidency and the APC of resorting to diversionary attacks on the PDP. It added that producing ‘epistles of lies and false performance’ claims will not save them from accounting for their atrocities while in office. The PDP stated that such antics would not save the APC and its indicted leaders from answering for atrocities committed which include the alleged stealing of over N15 trillion public funds; manipulating the Buhari administration, and importing terrorists and bandits for 2019 general election, who are now on rampage, killing innocent Nigerians, particularly in the northern parts of Nigeria. In a statement issued by the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said: “We know that APC’s attack is a desperate diversionary tactics, as more revelations continue to emerge on how its leaders and some presidency officials pillaged our national treasury and stole over N15 trillion naira, as well as how the APC has been patronising bandits with our national resources. “This is especially given the decision by our party to expose such APC leaders in addition to the rising public demand on President Buhari to recover the money and prosecute the culprits. “Our party also notes the plots by current APC leadership to blackmail and ridicule President Buhari by pushing out fake performance claims, like those contained in the statement issued by its illegal caretaker committee on January 5, 2021, which was designed to rubbish the president, highlight his failures and deflect attention from the atrocities of the APC.” According to the PDP statement, “Such fake narratives will not help the APC as our party has details of their nefarious leaders, including APC state governors, ministers, certain aides of the president, as well as APC fronts in agencies of the government, and would not hesitate to make such public at the fullness of time. “The APC had become rattled because of pressure from the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians asking President Buhari to go after APC leaders as well as the presidency officials involved in the reported stealing of N9.6 trillion ($25 billion) oil revenue as detailed in the leaked Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) memo.” It added: “APC leaders are having sleepless nights because the dragnet would soon catch up with all those involved in the reported stealing of N1.1 trillion worth of crude oil using 18 unregistered vessels; the looting of over N2 trillion in hazy oil subsidy regime, including a criminal under-recovery for unnamed West African countries as well as illegal tax per litre of petrol running into trillions of naira. “APC leaders are also jittery because they would soon explain how they siphoned N500billion Social Investment Programme and the N16billion meant for Mosquito Net Project as exposed by First Lady Aisha Buhari in addition to the N90 billion stolen from the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) in a racket in which certain top APC leaders were alleged to have received N3 billion each. “Top officials in the Buhari presidency have gone under over their alleged involvement in the looting of N33 billion NEMA fund as exposed in the findings by the House of Representatives, that the funds were never used for the provision of emergency food for victims of insurgency in the North-east region among other items as claimed.” The opposition party stated that: “Some known APC leaders are now running amok over their involvement in the siphoning of the N48 billion meant for the rebuilding of six North-east states ravaged by insurgency as well as the looting of N25 billion from the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) among others. “By now, the APC ought to know that any other narratives cannot fly when Nigerians are already aware that its leaders stashed away over N15 trillion stolen from our national coffers. “We, therefore, invite the new mouthpiece of the thieving APC, Senator James Akpanudoedehe, to find something more meaningful to do with his time as Nigerians are no longer swayed by APC’s lies and propaganda. “Under the PDP, people like Akpanudoedehe progressed in a robust economy and a secure country where the system worked. “If Akpanudoedehe meant well for the country, he should be apologising for the failures of his party and the devastation it has brought upon our country.”