Fadekemi Ajakaiye Nigerian prophet Gideon Isah has urged ‘demonic’ clerics to desist from their acts. Prophet Gideon Isah, also described as a son of Senior Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin, yesterday cried out against what he described as demonic acts of some so called prophets. Isah, who specially called out a popular South African pastor, Jay Israel over recent allegation linked to fraud, insisted that the cleric must desist from tarnishing the image of Christians. Prophet Isah also issued the cleric a public warning asking him to stay away from his spiritual father and repent of his evil acts of tarnishing the images of God-sent men, or suffer the consequences that would soon catch up with him. “It appears that the forewarned doomsday is now in play as the con- artist’s plots have been blatantly exposed, and his real line of business is clear to the world,” Isah said in press statement. Social media has been abuzz with shocking footage, which surfaced last year and indicated that the popular pastor of Spirit Life Mega Church, Jay Israel is the alleged ringleader of a chain of fraudsters, and con artists. Local media in South Africa had quoted the Police saying the prophet may have committed the crime following confessions. In the video, Israel allegedly  plots with another con artist, Blessing Muzvongi Mashangwa on how to tarnish the name of yet another Man of God, Makandiwa, and make him pay them off. The statement said, “They trade stories of what allegations they can put up against him, but two things were clear, from the video; all allegations are completely false, as they clearly point out; secondly, they are well versed at reconstructing lies without proper evidence and letting social media spread such fake news like wildfire. “It could be recalled that the same Isah had lashed out against Israel, not too long ago over a purported blackmail against Fufeyin.” Isah noted that the cleric had over a short period of time, spewed false allegations against popular men of God like Senior Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin, Senior Prophet Uebert Angel, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, and Prophet Makandiwa.