An exclusive screening of ‘The Milkmaid’, Nigeria’s official selection to the 93rd Oscars, will hold on Sunday, January 10. The exclusive screening titled “An Evening With The Milkmaid”, which will hold at Terra Kulture at 5.00pm, will be graced by the Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, as the special guest of honour while Bright Okpocha a.k.a. Basketmouth is the event compere. In December 2020, The Milkmaid was announced by the 12-member Nigeria Official Selection Committee (NOSC) as Nigeria’s representative to the 93rd Oscars in the category of Best International Feature Film, following a statutory vetting and subsequent voting of entries received from Nigerian filmmakers at home and abroad. Written, produced and directed by Desmond Ovbiagele, The Milkmaid is a Hausa language-based thriller spotlighting insurgency and extremism, especially as they affect women and children in Sub-Saharan Africa. Technically crafted to the highest international cinematic standards, the film showcases the natural beauty of Nigeria’s topography such as the Mambilla Plateau in Taraba state, while highlighting the richness of the subregion’s colourful Hausa and Fulani cultures. Starring Maryam Booth, Anthonieta Kalunta, and Gambo Usman Kona, with US-based Nigerian surgeon Dr. Oluseun Sowemimo as its Executive Producer, the film follows Aisha, a Fulani milkmaid, searching for the whereabouts of her younger sister, Zainab, after a forced separation. Dire personal circumstances forced her to approach the extremists who were responsible for their predicament in the first instance, but she is determined to find her despite the compromises she must make to do so. However, her quest to recapture her serene past proves to be unexpectedly complicated in a world whose seething conflict provides several paths to becoming a victim with typically irreversible consequences. The Milkmaid received eight nominations at the 16th edition of the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) in December 2020, winning five awards for Best Film, Best Supporting Actress, Best Nigerian Film, Best Film in an African Language, and Achievement in Make-up. Sponsorship inquiries can be directed to anu@milkmaidmovie.com