Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Bauchi State Police Command has apprehended 27 notorious hoodlums attacking and terrorising residents of the state. According a press statement by the command’s Public Relation Officer (PPRO), DSP Ahmed Mohammed Wakili which was made available to newsmen yesterday, the criminals were arrested on the 27th January 2021 at about 0300 hrs, following an intelligence report by police operatives attached to the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), coordinated by the RRS commander who raided the criminals hideout and black spots. The state police spokesman, said that the suspected criminals, had been terrorising Kofar Wambai, Abujan Kwata and other vulnerable places within the state metropolis.
He said that prior to their arrest, they had been engaged in perpetrating heinous crimes against the peace of the state, adding that their acts include an aggravated form of theft that involves the use of lethal weapons to leash violence against victims, depriving them of valuables such as mobile phones and cash as well as sometimes, brutally stabbing them and leave them in their pool of blood, which could lead to possible loss of lives. The police gave the names of the suspected criminals all males to include Ahmed Bala 18 years of Kofar Gombe, Abdul-Shakur Kabiru 17 years of Abujan Keats, Bello Ibrahim 25 years of Nasarawa Dawaki, Jamilu Iliya 15 years of Abujan Kwata, Dalhatu Bala 19 years of Kofar Gombe, Hamza Bala 30 years of Kofar Gombe, Fahat Mohammed 24 years of Abujan Kwata, Hamish Abubakar 50 years of Old Airport Road and Lawal Jibrin 22 years of Abujan Kwata. Other suspects are Abubakar Mohammed 27 years of Nasarawan Dawaki, Usman Mohammed 18 years of Nasarawa Dawaki, Mustapha Abdullahi 22 years of Abujan Kwata, Rufai Auwal 22 years of Abujan Kwata, Dani Mohammed 19 years of Abujan Kwata, Aminu Mu’azu 17 years of Dawaki Road, Salihu Ibrahim 20 years of Kofar Gombe, Zaharaddren Abdulsalam 20 years of Kofar Gombe, Ishan Dani 25 years of Karofi, Isiyaka Mustapha 20 years of Abujan Kwata, Ahmadu Mamma 16 years of Kofar Gombe and Salisu Muhammad 20 years of Kofar Gombe. Items recovered from the suspects included five machetes, five sticks, seven knives, one saw, three hair clippers, three Angle Spanner, one Chisel, one pliers, one hammer and the sum of N91, 340. In a similar development, on the 17/01/2021, police patrol team attached to ‘D’ Division while on patrol at Kimba Junction, arrested four other suspects in possession of dangerous weapons for which they could not give tangible reasons why they were possessing it.
The names of the suspects include Hassan Abdulkadir, 21yrs of Kofar Gombe, Aminu Sa’id, 20yrs of Gombe Road, Abubakar Muhammed 16yrs of Kofar Gombe and Nuhu Musa 20yrs of Unguwan Doya. The statement said that all the above mentioned cases had been transferred to State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) for discreet investigation after which suspects will be charged to court for prosecution and possible conviction if found guilty.