Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja The Kogi State Governor, Mr. Yahaya Bello, has expressed deep shock over the death of a former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) Mr. Abdullahi Ibrahim (SAN), which he described as a colossal loss to the nation and the state in particular. A condolence message issued by Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Onogwu Muhammed, described the late Ibrahim as an accomplished legal practitioner and administrator who has put so much into the service of the nation in different capacities. Bello said the sterling contributions of the late legal icon to legal profession right from when he was called to the English Bar in 1963 until he reached the pinnacle of his career as the first SAN from Northern Nigeria would remain indelible. Bello commiserated with members of his family and members of the Bar and Bench over the sad loss and prayed the Almighty Allah to grant his soul Aljannah firdaus. Abdullahi was the Managing Partner of Abdullahi Ibrahim and Company. He was called to the English Bar in 1963 after which he practiced in chambers in England before returning to Nigeria, where he was called to the Bar in 1964. He served at various times as Legal Adviser and Senior State Counsel in the defunct Northern Nigeria. He has been in private practice since 1973. Ibrahim has held various board appointments in several public and private bodies. He has also served the nation at various times. He was Legal Adviser and later Chairman of New Nigeria Development Company Limited (NNDC). He previously served the nation at different times as Federal Minister of Education; Federal Minister of Science and Technology and Minister for Transport and Aviation. He was also the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice of Nigeria between 1997 and May 1999. His wealth of experience and knowledge had been of immense advantage to the various tribunals and panels of inquiry that he had served in. Ibrahim was the agent, and later co-agent, in the dispute between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Republic of Cameroon at the International Court of Justice at The Hague.