By Kayode Fasua The Akin-Olugbade family of Ogun State yesterday lamented the death of its scion, Bolusanmi Adegboyega Akin-Olugbade, a legal expert and tycoon, due to COVID-19 complications. A statement made available to THISDAY by the head of the family, Prince Olusunmade Akin-Olugbade, noted with regrets that the pandemic took the lives of many illustrious Nigerians, who included their own. “We have been going through a season of weeping in Nigeria on all fronts but most especially because of the Coronavirus pandemic. “In the past year, we have lost friends, colleagues and associates. And now COVID-19 has struck again with the loss of my younger brother, Bolusanmi Adegboyega Akin-Olugbade,” the family said. Grieving over the passage of the legal expert and investor, the deceased’s brother said: “But I will not be at Bolu’s funeral. God has a season, sequence and structure for all his creation. “Only God knows the timing of the seasons of our lives. Yes, this is the season of weeping but the Holy Bible teaches us that those that sow in tears shall reap in joy. “Bolu defied the demons and the merchants of evil and broke the shackles that constrained him. “I saw the video from the hospital, they asked him if he wanted to end it, and he said yes.” According to him, the deceased was no longer concerned with longevity, wealth or fame, stressing that he found his release in Christ alone. “He is free at last. He has made peace with his friends and foes alike. Most of all, Bolu made peace with God,” he stated. He added that although the Akin-Olugbade family is still mourning, it is grateful to God for the life and legacy of the deceased. The family thanked family, friends and well-wishers from Nigeria and all over the world who have commiserated with them “on our loss and have shared in their pain, especially the Reverend Dr. S.A Fegbemi and the church family at the First Baptist Church, Lagos.” “Through all the changing scenes and vicissitudes of life, our faith remains unshaken in God who is our refuge and our hope for years to come. “May the soul of Bolusanmi Adegboyga Akin-Olugbade rest in peace and may light perpetual shine on him,” he stated. He prayed that God should grant succour to Ladunni, Bade, Dademi and Babatunde; and also uphold, sustain and lift up the entire Akin-Olugbade family at home and abroad. Olusunmade, however, went nostalgic, recalling the early days of the deceased. He said he was born when his father was a clerk in the colonial treasury department (now the Ministry of Finance), while Bolu was born after his father had travelled to the UK (United Kingdom) and qualified as a Barrister-at-Law, hence the seeming wide gap in their ages. “But you could not make out the difference because Bolu was a tall, fearless man who knew early in life what he wanted in this life, and pursued it with rugged determination,” he said. He said he was with his mother when Bolu was born on April 2, 1956, and was also present when he received the LL.B degree at the Royal Albert Hall, London from the Queen Mother in 1978. “I was present when he got married to his heartthrob, the beautiful damsel, Ladunni Moore at the Cathedral Church of Christ, Marina in December, 1980. “And when they had their first child, Bade in Cambridge, England in 1981, I was present at the naming ceremony. When Bolu bagged his Ph.D degree in law from Cambridge University in 1985, my late mother and I attended the convocation ceremony. “And when his Royal Majesty, the Olowu of Owu Kingdom, Oba Dr. Adegboyega Olusanya Dosunmu conferred the Aare Ona Kakanfo title on Bolusanmi Adegboyega in October 2009, I was the Head of the Akin-Olugbade Royal family at the ceremony,” Olusunmade said.