Famous actress Rita Dominic is enjoying a breath of fresh air following self-leak of her lover man, Fidelis Anosike. For many, this is the real deal as this is the first time the creative would ever flaunt her ‘yori yori’ on social media, writes Ferdinand Ekechukwu When super star actress Rita Dominic, for the first time last Saturday revealed the identity of her partner, it took many by surprise. Soon after, the blogosphere went agog with comments and congratulatory messages. In fact, her post as at the time of this report had generated over 10,000 comments, which by far the highest she has ever recorded on any of her social media platforms. Dominic, who took to her Instagram page to show off her man, Fidelis Anosike, is enjoying a new lease of life and eagerly waiting for the wedding day. Her fans that have waited for her for years to pick a man are also celebrating. The 45-year-old Nigerian star actress has managed to keep her love life away from the public but finally comes out in the open. She posted some lovely photos with Anosike while wishing her fans a Merry Christmas. Dominic, who wore same casual outfit as her partner, captioned the photos “Merry Christmas” with love emojis. The post set her 6.8 million followers on the platform and friends into some frenzy. Both lovebirds are believed to be engaged and are planning to wed in 2021. Anosike was quoted to have said the wedding may be around April, 2021. He said: “I have been married to my work for the past ten years.” Rita and Anosike met in Lagos during the 2017 Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF) session on film business which had government representatives, business leaders and development agencies as well as media entrepreneurs and top executives. Although Riri as she’s fondly called has been linked in romantic relationship in the past with popular ‘Nollywood bad boy’, Jim Iyke, she has never been married before, and has over the years successfully kept her relationship private. However, once speaking during a television interview in November 2018 on her experience regarding relationship and how society perceives a woman’s success incomplete without marriage, she admitted that she almost got married at some point in her life but was glad it didn’t work out. She added that she was happy the relationship did not work due to the red flags. During the television interview, Rita insisted she would not marry because society wants her to, but because she wants to: “At the end of the day, if I’m going to do it, I’m doing it for myself not because society wants me to do it. And I always will still say; I will marry the man of my dreams and not the man society dreams for me. Society feels there’s something wrong with you if you’re at a certain age and you’re not married. “What if it’s the society that something is wrong with for thinking that way; for forcing someone to do what they don’t want to do or forcing them to do what they want to do but in their society’s own time and not at the person’s time? “I almost married someone. We were there. We were at that point. It didn’t work out and I’m happy it didn’t work out because I saw the signs. You know how you see the signs and you just ignore it hoping the person will change. “Look, a grown man and a grown woman cannot change. They can find a way to live with each other and respect each other’s feelings, but to change a grown person is difficult.” Now for many, Rita’s revelation of Anosike as her ‘yori yori’ has got to be the real deal as this is the first time the light skin actress would ever flaunt her lover man or give hints of his identity on social media. Anosike is founder of Folio Media Group, a multimedia conglomerate which runs Daily Times Nigeria. Dominic is multiple award-winning actress, producer and co-founder of The Audrey Silva Company. She is one of Africa’s biggest movie stars. She started performing when she was a child, appearing in school plays and children television shows in Imo State. A graduate of the University of Port Harcourt with a BA in Theatre Arts, Dominic joined the Nigerian film industry in 1998, starring in her first movie, A Time to Kill. Since then, she has become known for her ability to thoroughly embody characters and continues to receive critical acclaim for her portrayal of iconic roles. The youngest of four children, Rita Dominic was born into the Royal Nwaturuocha family of Aboh-Mbaise, in Imo State. Dominic is best known for her roles in the groundbreaking films ‘76’, ‘The Meeting’ and ‘Shattered’ for which she won several prestigious awards, including the Africa Movie Academy Awards and the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards for Best Actress in both the Drama and Comedy categories. Dominic persistently reinvents herself in terms of her craft and she is not adept to a particular role. One of her latest movies, ‘La Femme Anjola’, a psychological thriller which has the classic elements of film noir but with an African twist, saw the screen diva play in a lead role as a femme fatale. In contrast however, Dominic is not a femme fatale. She doesn’t look it. She’s as attractive as she appears a good woman. You can only tell if having met her one on one. Over the years, she has achieved the consistency of character and performance that have eluded many in the movie industry. Flawless in delivery, gorgeous in countenance, she has remained one of Nigeria’s iconic and versatile actresses. An array of roles in different characters over the years have somewhat affected the Rita Dominic brand in the real world. Perhaps, leaving her as a superhuman to her followers, but then she reckons that she tries as much as possible to be herself regardless of the name Rita Dominic, or her being an actress, that she’s just an ordinary person. That much, her strong social media presence has helped grown and maintain her fan base by direct conversation with her followers, so many of who go overboard sometimes to appreciate her craft whenever they see her.