Bennett Oghifo As from February 27, all trucks doing business at the ports in Apapa, Lagos, will be required to park at the approved truck parks until they are called up into the port through an electronic call up system (Eto app) of the Nigerian Ports Authority. The Eto application will be responsible for the scheduling, entry and exit of all trucks into the ports with effect from 27th February 2021, according to a statement yesterday that was signed by the Assistant General Manager Corporate & Strategic Communications of NPA, Ibrahim S. Nasiru, on behalf of the General Manager Corporate & Strategic Communications. The statement said empty containers would also be returned by the shipping companies from their holding bays using the same app platform, explaining that the system was part of efforts aimed at finding a permanent solution to the problem of truck congestion at Apapa and its environs. The statement said, “The Authority is pleased to announce the commencement of Eto, the Electronic Truck call-up system designed for the management of truck movement and access to and from the Lagos Ports Complex and the Tin Can Island Ports, Apapa, Lagos. “Therefore, all transporters, trucks owners and truck drivers will be required to download the Eto App from Google play store or sign up at http://eto.ttp.com.ng before the commencement date to enable them register accordingly.” On the return of empty containers, the Authority said, “Cargo owners should please note that empty containers can only be returned to the ports through the approved holding bays of shipping companies using the Eto Platform. It is the responsibility of the shipping company to move empty containers from their holding bay to the Port. All cargo owners have to do is drop their empty containers at the holding bay of the shipping company. The shipping company will then make the necessary bookings on the Eto platform to return empty containers to the Port. “The management of the NPA solicits the cooperation of transporters, truck drivers, cargo owners, clearing agents shipping companies and all port users in the implementation of the project, which will bring order and sanity to the ports access roads.
“Non-compliance to the use of Eto and its guidelines will result in denial of access into the Ports, impounding of trucks and withdrawal of registration/operating license,” the statement said.