Segun Awofadeji in Gombe Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya has again reiterated his administration’s commitment to give priority attention to sectors that can generate wealth and uplift the living conditions of the people of the state. The governor stated this yesterday at a quarterly media parley to give account of his administration’s stewardship to Gombe people in a live broadcast beamed on Local TV, Radio stations as well as social media platforms in the state. Speaking on one of his administration’s flagship projects, the Gombe Industrial Park, the governor said a preliminary site plan has since been designed and submitted, detailing the architectural master plan of the project. He said by the end of the first quarter of this year, a final draft of the plan is expected which will eventually lead to the award of contract for the construction of the Gombe Industrial park that will consist of big, medium and small processing companies, road networks, schools and housing units. The governor explained that his administration has already attracted the interest of some investors willing to inject funds into the construction of the Gombe Industrial Park and those planning to set processing companies, saying the Nigerian Export Processing Zone will also be on ground to maintain quality and standard of goods and services meant for international trade. On the issue of power which has been the bane of companies’ development across the country, the Gombe State Governor said his administration has gone into an agreement with the power generating company at the Dadinkowa Dam to scoop 20 out of the 40 megawatts for the park. The governor assured the people that considering the importance of the Gombe Industrial Park to the economic development of the State and its people, his administration will do everything necessary to ensure timely completion of the project. Responding to a question on the outcome of his visit to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), his engagement with the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development and the Qatar Foundation in Abuja, Governor Yahaya said as a leader he has no choice than to visit those organisations and establishments in order to attract their interventions in utilizing the natural resources that God has endowed the state with. To this end, the governor said, the NNPC has indicated that it would begin the exploitation of oil and gas in the Gongola basin as well as offer quick intervention in building 200 bed capacity hospital and diagnostic center in the State. Similarly the governor revealed that the State Government had also gained the understanding of the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development for the full extraction of mineral resources in the State for the overall benefit of the people. He described the MoU signed between the Gombe State Government and the Qatar Foundation as a breakthrough which has since attracted the organisation’s intervention in the areas of health, water supply and worship centres among others, disclosing also that a plan to build a school of nursing in Gombe is also in the offing in conjunction with the Qatari charity outfit.