Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, has highlighted its array of solutions to support businesses in the country to make the most of 2021. The solutions on offer are geared towards providing access to flexible funding for small, medium and large-scale enterprises thereby addressing inadequate access to capital, exposure to international markets and inherent challenges plaguing local and international trade. The solutions also allow organisations to take advantage of joint partnerships without the risk of losing capital and benefit from medium to long term investment solutions that help businesses in maximising their resources, it explained in a statement. Commenting on the offerings, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Bank, Wole Adeniyi, said the solutions were designed to support SMEs and address its customers’ trade and financial needs. “Over the years, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, as Nigeria’s leading end-to-end financial services provider, has remained at the forefront of providing financial solutions to business enterprises in the country, while offering Nigerian importers access to its global presence through its Africa China Agent Proposition (ACAP),” Adeniyi said. Targeted at business owners who import goods from China or have trade dealings with China, ACAP, through Stanbic IBTC Bank, links Nigerian importers to Chinese exporters, facilitates payments and ensures the successful completion of their trade dealings. “Leveraging Stanbic IBTC’s network of Chinese agents, with client satisfaction being the cornerstone, ACAP offers a broad ecosystem of services, solutions and support, which equips African and Chinese businesses to leverage trade and growth opportunities to drive Africa’s growth. “The ACAP solution, which has been termed ‘game-changer’, eases the cashflow worries of African importers by providing access to finance while also empowering the importers to have end-to-end visibility of the entire importation and logistic process,” Adeniyi said. Likewise, the Stanbic IBTC Trade Club offers business owners exposure to meet and trade with suppliers anywhere in the world, thus giving them the needed exposure for their businesses to thrive. With the increasing clamour for diversification of the nation’s economy from crude oil, Stanbic IBTC has also highlighted its Agribusiness solution, which is geared at providing financing options to stakeholders in the agriculture value chain. Simultaneously, Vehicle Asset Financing (VAF) is targeted at financing heavy machines needed for business or personal purpose.