By Emmanuel Onwubiko A sign that dictatorship or authoritarianism has berthed in any nation State, is when the President or the head of government formulates and implements public policies with scant regard to the public good. Senator Shehu Sani’s Book In his book “Civilian Dictators of Africa,” a civil Rights campaigner in Nigeria, Shehu Sani, puts it succinctly thus: “The concept of authoritarianism is used in this book to denote all those forms of government or social control which are characterised by strict obedience to the authority of a State or organisation, often maintained through the use of coercive measures and which are strongly hierarchical”. Shehu Sani who was the Senator that represented Kaduna Central in the eight session of the Senate, said further: “In addition, citizens are subject to State authority in many aspect of their lives, to the extent their civil liberties and freedom are eroded. Usually an authoritarian government is undemocratic, and has the power to govern without the consent of those governed”. He said that though authoritarianism is in degrees, and even very democratic States may have elements of authoritarianism, the concept is employed in this book to broadly denote democratic governments or which major types include: Absolutism, Aristocracy, Autocracy, Despotism, Dictatorship, Kleptocracy, Monarchism, Oligarchy, Plutocracy, Theocracy, Totalitarianism, and Tyranny. Sani said it should be noted however that, these government types are not private mutually exclusive, and most times, overlap. His words: “Absolutism is a political system in which there is no legal, customary, or moral limit on the government’s power. The term is generally applied to political systems ruled by single dictators, but can also be applied to seemingly democratic systems that grant sweeping powers to the legislative or executive”. “The major elements of absolutism, according to Encarta (2006) are: centralisation of power, close control of social groups, and absence of competing political parties. This reference however, notes that beginning with the 20th century, many absolute regimes which were openly dictatorial began to put up appearances or popular representation, which was largely a mere façade.” R.K.Sapru’s Book A renowned intellectual, R.K. Sapru writing on the concept of forces in the policy-making process which is a chapter in his scholarly book titled: “Public Policy: Formulation, Implementation and Evaluation”, expertly asserts that carrying the people along in policy making process by government is a categorical imperative (if I can borrow a term developed by Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher and a central figure of the enlightenment school of thought). R. K. Sapru then explained in greater detail in the following notes: “The subject of this chapter is how policy –makers take decisions. It is thus, concerned with power, since policy-making is essentially a manifestation of power. It is there