Leicester City boss Brendan Rodgers has delivered an update on his midfielder Wilfred Ndidi as he downplays the seriousness of the midfielder’s injury against Everton. The Nigeria international made his 11th appearance in the Premier League this campaign, playing for just 42 minutes before he succumbed to a hamstring injury during the game. The 24-year-old midfielder was then subbed off in the 42nd minute as he was replaced by former Monaco and Nice midfielder Nampalys Mendy, with the hopes of not escalating the injury. The Foxes’ boss Rodgers was able to reduce the fears that seemed to have plagued everybody regarding how long the Nigerian midfielder will be on the sidelines.
Speaking to the media following their 1-1 draw against Everton, Rodgers said via Leicester City website: “Wilf was tight, it was the back of his hamstring, so we’ll see how that goes in the next couple of days. “It’s just tightened up. He doesn’t think he’s overstretched or tore it. We’ll just have to assess that. We couldn’t risk it.”
Ndidi is likely to miss Leicester City’s upcoming English Premier League matches against Leeds United and Fulham, with manager Brendan Rodgers revealing at Friday’s press conference that the holding midfielder faces at least one week on the sidelines due to a hamstring issue. Additionally, the Nigeria international would be racing against the clock to be fit for the Foxes’ clash against Wolverhampton Wanderers on February 7.
“It’s just a slight tear. He will be out for a week to 10 days, which is unfortunate, but sometimes hamstrings can be much longer than that,” Rodgers told the national press in England. Ndidi and another key player in Jamie Vardy are not available for selection for Sunday’s visit of Leeds United. “It’s the same test we’ve had all season when we’ve had players missing. Jamie is a top-class player, so is Wilf, but we’ve managed to get good results consistently over the season,” Rodgers added. Ever since the beginning of the 2020/22 campaign, the Super Eagles midfielder had been plagued with several injuries which ultimately reduce his game time in the Brendan Rodgers team, with only 15 games played so far. Ndidi was only just returned from the sidelines after recovering from a groin injury, which he succumbed to in September, seeing him out for almost three months. The 24-year-old midfielder moved to the King Power Stadium from Belgian side Genk during the winter transfer window of 2017, and ever since he had become pivotal for the team. In his first full campaign with the Foxes, he was crowned the club’s best young talent beating Demarai Gray and Ben Chilwell to the prize.