Health Management Organisation (HMO), AXA Mansard Health Limited, has deployed technology to address challenges facing Nigeria’s health insurance industry. The organisation announced this at its virtual yearly Human Resources Conference tagged: “Winning the Pandemic Battle Together”. The conference, had in attendance the Managing Director, Paelon Memorial Hospital, Dr. Frances Onyia as guest speaker and two panelists – Medical consultant-Human resources, MTN Nigeria, Dr. Idorentin Oladiran and Medical and Wellness Consultant-Human Capital, Stanbic IBTC Dr. Jatto Sylvanus respectively. Speaking, the chief Executive Officer, AXA Mansard Health Limited, Tope Adeniyi, said AXA Mansard Health had been positioned to lead all health management organisations in Nigeria providing health related services to both individuals and corporate bodies. He said the focus of the session was to get a deeper understanding of the COVID 19 pandemic and how as organisations, “we can deal with the resultant effects on our staff and the business operations.” “A major step we have taken to help reduce the spread of the Covid-19 virus is the introduction of pre-authorisation approval notification, aimed at reducing the wait-time at hospitals,” he added. He said to fast-track hospital visits and remove information asymmetry between care providers, enrollees can now get pre-authorisation approval notification, access benefit schedule, pre-book hospitals, refill drug prescriptions and so on via the MYAXA Plus Application. Also speaking, the Chief Client Officer, Mrs. Rashidat Adebisi, noted that as a company, AXA Mansard HMO, had made effort to ensure that its customers and staff are well catered for during the pandemic. According to her, “AXA has remained a caring company, protecting all that matter to its clients from health, life, property to wealth management. “We are more convinced of our purpose in such a time like this and we will stand by our esteemed customers through this challenging period. We believe we will win this battle as we educate, collaborate and take adequate precautions.”