By Adedayo Akinwale The Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, has said that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will continue to win every election in the country. He also added that by the time the party is done with the registration of new members and revalidation of existing members in the country, it would not just be the largest in Africa, but would call on developed nations to come and learn from it. Bello disclosed this yesterday during the inauguration of the Women and Youth Sensitisation and Mobilisation Committee for the forthcoming membership registration and revalidation exercise, held at the party’s Secretariat in Abuja. The committee chaired by the Kogi governor, also has the Governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun as the Vice Chairman, while the party’s Director of Organisation, Prof. Ussiju Medaner, will serve as Secretary. Bello commended the Governor of Yobe State and Chairman of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni for taking up this onerous task of rebuilding the party from bottom up, and for restoring peace, sanity, unity and togetherness to the party. He stated: “We have always been saddled with the responsibility of carrying one assignment or the other for the party and we have always delivered on our mandate. “This is yet another one and by the grace of God, with the cooperation, understanding and the support of members of the party and Nigerians, we are very confident that we are going deliver resoundingly once again. “We have taken up this responsibility. It’s a sacrifice, it’s out of patriotism, it’s a national assignment. We are going to deliver resoundingly. The APC will continue to win every election in this country. By the time we are done and all the registration of new members and revalidation of existing members are done in the country, APC will not just be the largest in Africa but we’re going to call on even the developed nations to come and learn from APC in Nigeria. “We shall even teach some of our brothers who have just concluded elections that were rancorous. I will not mention names but we’re going to be an institution of political and politics in Nigeria.” Earlier, Buni said the party under the caretaker committee was undertaking some strategic measures to properly reposition the party. He stressed that this was being done in addition to the reconciliation exercise, which has continued to yield tremendous results for the party. The Yobe governor stated that the sensitisation and mobilisation committee had a crucial and critical role to play in the membership registration and revalidation exercise which will commence soon. “You are expected to mount rigorous sensitization programme to effectively mobilise every member of the party especially women and youth to either revalidate their membership or register afresh,” he explained.