By Omolabake Fasogbon Ronix Consult, a foremost consultancy firm with roots in Nigeria and the United Kingdom has concluded arrangements to launch its first book captioned: Mining Exploration in Nigeria: How to Invest in the Mining Sector in Nigeria. The Chief Executive Officer/CEO of Ronix Consult, Mrs. Roni Akins made this disclosure in a press statement released to journalists. According to her, the book is a compendium of everything about mining in Nigeria. “Mining Exploration in Nigeria: How to Invest in the Mining Sector in Nigeria features 10 packed chapters and comes with a range of resources that can help investors seize the opportunities inherent in the Nigerian mining sector. “Given the vast nature of mining and the myriad of information available with regards to mining in Nigeria, one will write a tome in volumes to exhaust every given data in mining. The book gives an overview of what an investor should know to be well informed on how to begin. “The book is compiled in such a way that when a reader picks it up he or she can easily navigate to the topic or section that interests them without feeling they have lost or missed something. “The book distilled the research the author has conducted over the years as well as draw from the experience the firm has garnered for more than 3 decades and formed it into an organised knowledge for the good of all, especially investors seeking first-hand information regarding mining exploration in Nigeria,” She said. The book provides a new take on mining investment in Nigeria from the perspective of an investor. It provides a comprehensive view of the vast array of mineral resources available in Nigeria, where they are located and how interested stakeholders can go about it. The book will be available for purchase from 10th January 2012. It is available on Amazon and at designated bookstores in Nigeria. Ronix Consult is a subsidiary of Pevron Estate Ltd which specialises in providing business owners, investors and its array of clients the peace of mind needed to do business in Nigeria. The firm has spent over a decade in the field, has a good understanding of the Nigerian business climate and boasts of a robust network of professionals, policy-makers and other stakeholders in Nigeria. The new book is available at Jed Mega Store, Palms Lekki Phase1; Okozikoworldwide Bookshop, Local and International Airport; Kenbod Venture, Local and International; Eagle Venture; Bossy Bookshop; P N C Bookshop Arrival Local Airport; Frances Venture, Local Airport, and others.