Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Bauchi State Government yesterday disclosed that it had earmarked N759 million to procure patrol vehicles to support the fight against banditry, kidnapping and other criminal elements across the state. The Commissioner for Finance, Alhaji Umaru Adamu disclosed the plan after the meeting of the Executive Council (EXCO) at the banquet hall, Government House, Bauchi. Adamu stated that the vehicles, when procured, would in no small measure boost the ongoing fight against kidnapping, banditry and other forms of criminality in the state and even beyond. He said that the state council meeting, which the state governor, Sen. Bala Mohammed presided, observed that the proposal for the procurement of the vehicles was concluded following a memo presented by the finance ministry for ratification following an earlier approval by the governor. Adamu said the state recognised the fact that security is one of the issues affecting the Northeast. The commissioner noted that Bauchi is known to be a peaceful state in the region, which has been affected by insurgency, activities of kidnappers, armed bandits and other criminal activities. He said the security challenge “is taking its tolls on the state. The memo to purchase the vehicles was adopted following omission of the state by the North East Development Commission (NEDC) in the provision of 200 security vehicles to all the states in the sub region.” He said the security agencies have requested for the state government’s assistance to provide them with security vehicles, and the governor, having realised its importance, considered their request. He said although the security agencies requested for 200 security vehicles, the governor looked at the quantum of the amount and decided to go for something more affordable, owing to paucity of funds. According to the commissioner, the governor decided that for the first tranche the state should buy 50 units of JAC Pick Up at the rate of N15 million each. Adekule said: “Customers who have collected tellers for metres under the MAP and have not paid shall not pay any amount to acquire a metre. “Any amount paid to the account of MAP shall be refunded in 21 days subject to customers providing the account details for the refund. About 20 percent of the metres are three phase while 80 percent are single phase. “Customers in Band A which include those with a minimum of 20 hours supply, Band B minimum of 16 hours and Band C minimum of 12 hours of power supply will benefit from the metering during the exercise. “Band D with a minimum of 8 hours and Band E with a minimum of 6 hours of power supply will benefit from the metering in the second quarter of 2021,” he added. Adekunle, also, said the court case between BEDC and Civil Society Organisations in Edo would soon be over, disclosing that lawyers of both parties have resolved to settle out of court.