Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta The Chairman of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Mrs. Ronke Sokefun, has stated that Nigeria is now ripe for a female presidency ahead of the 2023 general election. Citing the example of Kamala Harris, the first female vice president of the United States of America, who was sworn in last week, Sokefun said female presidency “is inevitable in Nigeria.” The NDIC chairman stated this while fielding questions from journalists, shortly after she was honoured for her contribution to the education sector by the Baptist Boys’ High School Abeokuta Old Boys Association. The award was presented to her in Abeokuta during the ‘Presidential Endowment Dinner and launching of the N1billion Development Fund’, which was attended by former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo; Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, and other prominent members of the Old Boys Association. Sokefun, who was a commissioner in Ogun State, called for more engagement of females in politics and leadership positions. She expressed optimism that in the nearest future, a female will lead Nigeria, the most populous black nation in the world. According to her, with the emergence of Kamala Harris as the first female vice president of US, Nigeria is on a threshold of history to becoming a country that can also produce a female president. Sokefun, who disclosed that she was the first female chairman of the NDIC in the 30 years history of the corporation, called on the men counterparts to give women the chance to rule the country. She said: “A female president is achievable in Nigeria. Don’t limit your thought; don’t limit your ambition. It may not happen today, but it is inevitable. “I’m the first female chairman of NDIC; it has never happened in the 30 years history of the corporation. “How old is America, Kamala Harris is the first female vice president of the country; it is going to happen in Nigeria, it is inevitable. We are going to have women proving their mettle, doing things, breaking boundaries, shattering the glass ceiling. It is going to happen eventually in Nigeria. “Yes, we will crawl; now we are getting female senators, we have Patricia Ete who was the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Someday, soon, we are going to have a female president of the Senate; we are going to have a female vice president; we are going to have a female governor. It is only a matter of time.”