By Segun Awofadeji Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya has inaugurated the Governing Council of the state university and boards of School of Nursing and Midwifery, as well as College of Health Sciences and Technology, Kaltungo with a charge on members to ensure that their various institutions adhere to the principles of accountability and compliance with the best practices in the discharge of their responsibilities. The Governor stated who made this known, during the inauguration held recently, at the new Banquet Hall of the Government House, appealed to them to provide policy direction and desired leadership in order to move the institutions to greater heights. To the Governing Council of the State University, Governor Inuwa Yahaya noted that “the institution was established in line with the tripartite mission of institutions of higher education which involves teaching, research and service, as well as production of knowledge through research, building of an exemplary character in the individual student through learning and engaging the society in the exchange of ideas through service.” He said for any university to achieve its mission, the governing council has a big role to play in maintaining its functions as enshrined in the law establishing it. These functions, the governor explained, include the general principles of control and supervision of policy implementation, finances and property of the university, including its public relations. He further tasked the council to ensure that proper accounts of the university are kept and audited annually by auditors appointed by the state auditor-general and an annual report published by the university together with certified copies of the audited account. “In carrying out its functions, the governing council should cooperate with the state government, the management of the university, the various unions in the university, external bodies and local communities for the purpose of fairness, equity and justice.” As for the College of Nursing and Midwifery, Gombe, Governor Yahaya reminded the board members that “the institution was established in order to train the much-needed manpower for our health institutions and serve as a vehicle for effective healthcare delivery in State.” To the Board members of the College of Health Sciences and Technology, Kaltungo, the governor said the institution was established to produce skilled health technologists and allied personnel to help the health institutions respond to emerging and re-emerging health challenges across the tate. “Discharging those responsibilities require the efficient mobilisation and application of resources. This is even more important considering the prevailing economic condition caused by Covid-19 which calls for prudence and accountability. The boards should therefore help their institutions create innovative ways to generate revenue and reduce their financial dependence on government”. He said in order to ensure that higher institutions achieve their statutory objectives, his administration selected individuals of impeccable character and track records into the council and boards, expressing the belief that they will bring their wealth of experience and unique expertise towards the development of the institutions. “I charge you to exhibit exemplary character in the conduct of your affairs in order to move the institutions forward and to justify the confidence reposed in you. Your appointments and inauguration are coming at a critical time when government is seriously focusing its attention investing heavily in the education sector, culminating in the declaration of state of emergency in education after considering the reports of the transition committee and the taskforce on tertiary institutions which highlighted the negligence and systemic rot in the sector”. He thanked the members of the immediate past Gombe State University Governing Council chaired by His Royal Highness, Alhaji Haruna Kadiri Rashid, the Emir of Dukku and those of the two colleges for their services and commitments to duty. The governor appealed to the management, staff and students of the institutions and the general public to give the members of the newly inaugurated council and boards the support and cooperation in order to succeed in their new responsibilities. Earlier, the Secretary to the State Government, Professor Ibrahim Abubakar Njodi said the inauguration was another milestone in the history of the administration of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya to bring life back into the state owned institutions of higher learning. Speaking on behalf of the members of the three boards, the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Gombe State University, Senator Joshua Lidani thanked the governor for the confidence reposed in them, assuring that the trust will not be misplaced. “We have accepted to serve because we have identified with your laudable programmes which you initiated upon assumption into office as governor of Gombe State. “Every one of us is a witness to the giant strides of your administration in various sectors. When you talk of education, we are seeing renovations and constructions going every where. He said the renovation construction of schools, as well as the training of teachers under the present administration, mark a departure from what obtained in the past, where only physical structures were the main focus. The Chairman of the Gombe State University Governing Council also lauded the governor for building roads across the entire length and breadth of the state, through his flagship project, the network eleven hundred among several other developmental initiatives. He assured the governor that the council and boards will continue to identify with his administration all through. Expert Canvasses Change In Nigeria Education Sector An educationist and Consultant to the Shaanxi Polytechnic Institute, China, Pastor Julius Adeniyi Ayodele has said Nigeria’s education sector needs the assistance of diverse stakeholders to lift it to an enviable height. Speaking at the formal presentation of sponsored curriculum of Shaanxi Polytechnic Institute by Association of Proprietors of Innovation and Vocational Institutions (APIVI) to National Board for Technical Education, NBTE , in Abuja, he premised attainment of such feat on more high quality education, development of talents for international opportunities and resources to operate optimally globally. “My own view on Nigeria curricula for Technical and Vocational Education(TVE), is that some of them are out of date and there’s a need for review of some of the existing ones, and new curriculum should be introduced considering the changing economic and societal needs. We the stakeholders in the education sector, should be preparing our young citizens for current and future job opportunities. “Shaanxi Polytechnic Institute is a government-owned college.They are well positioned to support Nigeria tertiary education, particularly technical and vocational education and will consider any innovative ideas that could move education forward to high quality standard and providing right skills that could help to solve unemployment problems and creation of jobs for Nigeria youths.” The Proprietor of Firstmark Innovation School of Technology, Ekiti State; Professor Olatunji Kadeba, said as more institutions are expressing interest, it has become expedient to involve the Association of Proprietors of Innovation Enterprise Institutions whose mandate is to extend the frontiers of technical and vocational skill acquisition, Federal Ministry of Education, and NBTE, a regulatory body for technical/vocational education. According to him, Shaanxi Polytechnic Institute is one of the leading institutions in China. Firstmark Innovation School of Technology, Ado-Ekiti, sought cooperation with this institute in areas of vocational and technical education, research, staff exchange and student internship. He added that the initial stage of the partnership involves review and development of new curricula that addresses issues of technical-know-how, entrepreneurship, industry needs and professional ethics with the active support of Shaanxi Polytechnic Institute. The Association of Proprietors of Innovation and Vocational Institutions used the occasion to clarify their roles and responsibilities in coordinating the activities of their members for curriculum development and development of government policies on education as well as influencing and impacting the policies of government agencies. The body also suggested the coordinating of activities of all Shaanxi partners in Nigeria who are members of the association for the national critique and that their role will be to host the experts, mobilise and conduct the national critique. In his remark, the National President, APIVI in Nigeria, Dr. Andrews Olugbenga Jegede, commended Shaanxi Polytechnic Institute for the international partnership and outlook.
He promised to assist domesticate as many Chinese curriculum as possible, saying, it’s a partnership that the two countries would benefit. Also, the Rector, Katsina State Institute of Technology and Management, Dr Babangida Alibaba Abubakar who appreciated the networking and system security curriculum, explained that the nation is working round the clock to introduce 5G and that the Chinese technology is the back bone in the initiative. “Working with Shaanxi Polytechnic Institute is a welcome development not only will it afford our youths to taste the technical side of China, but the exchange of cultural appropriation is a good idea.”‘ The Chairman, Association of Proprietors of Innovation and Vocational Institution, Abuja, Miss Dosekun Jogun expressed delight about the giant stride made by the institute. She assured the gathering of bringing on board the entire management of Federal Capital Education Board in their next meeting, saying that the board’s input would add value to the initiative. An official of NBTE , Mr. Abdul Koformata, said it would accept curriculum review request and new curriculum development provided there’s sponsor, adding that most of the curricula are due for review as they had been developed since 2005. ” ” ” “By national standard, it should have been reviewed after five years, but became impossible due to paucity of fund.
He said the board would encourage introduction of new curricula as part of its roles.