By Francis Sardauna The Vice Principal of the Community Secondary School Kadandani in Rimi Local Government Area of Katsina State, Mr. Ibrahim Sale, has admitted to the police authorities that he had sexual relationship with his 12-year-old student. Ibrahim, 38, was among suspected rapists paraded yesterday by the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Gambo Isah, at the police command headquarters in Katsina, the state capital. According to Isah, “My name is Ibrahim Sale. I am the vice principal of Community Secondary School Kadandani in Rimi LGA, and I have three wives. I raped my 12-year-old student and she got pregnant. “I paid her N200, N300 and sometimes N500 before she agreed to have sexual intercourse with me. She gave birth to baby boy last Sunday.” Parading the suspect before journalists, Isah said the suspect lured the 12-year-old student and repeatedly had carnal knowledge of her in his apartment in the community. He said: “From January 9 to 14, 2021, the police command has arrested eight suspected rapists in six reported cases across the state. Among the suspect is Ibrahim Sale, who is the vice principal of a community school in Rimi LGA. “He lured a young girl of about 12 years and serially had unlawful sexual relationship with her without the knowledge of the parents, and even impregnated her. “In fact, right now, this young girl had delivered a baby through Caesarean Section (CS) at the General Hospital in Katsina, and investigation is ongoing on the matter. So we are calling on parents to be vigilant.” Isah added: “Anytime she came to school, he would take her away to his house even when he is married with three wives. What is he looking for in a young girl of 12? Right now, we don’t know how the girl will feed her baby.” The state police spokesman expressed worry over the recent upsurge in rape cases across the state, and called on members of the public, especially parents, to always look after their wards to avert such scenario in the state.