John Shiklam in Kaduna and Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano In separate incidents, suspected gunmen have abducted 18 businessmen from Kano State who were on a commercial journey to Abia State, and another 18 villagers in a community in Kaduna State. The Kano incident occurred when the abducted victims, who were businessmen from the Kano’s popular textile market of Kantin Kwari were traveling to Aba in Abia State to buy goods. Multiple sources disclosed that their vehicle was attacked by the armed men who moved them to the bush. President of Arewa Youth Traders Association of Nigeria, Alhaji Abubakar Kabiru told journalists in Kano yesterday that the businessmen were on their way to Aba, in on Sunday night when kidnappers shot the tyre of their luxury bus and abducted them. According to him, “the traders were on their way to Aba on Sunday so as to buy their goods on Monday morning and return to Kano on Tuesday morning when kidnappers shot at their luxury bus on Kaduna –Abuja Highway”. Also, the Managing Director of Kantin Kwari Market Management Board, Mr. Abba Bello confirmed the incident. Bello said the kidnapped businessmen were 18 in number, adding that the market management board has so far confirmed the names of 12 victims. “They were all traveling to Aba in Abia State when the gunmen attacked them along Lokoja-Okene expressway in Kogi State”. Bello also revealed that he has not officially received information on whether the kidnappers have contacted the families. However, Kano State Police Command yesterday said it has not received the report of the incident. Spokesman of the command, Mr. Abdullahi Haruna Kiya told THISDAY that the incident should be reported to the state police command in the state where the abduction took place. In a related development, no fewer than 18 people, including four nursing mothers were reportedly abducted by bandits in Mando village, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The incident, according to a statement by the Chairman of Brinin Gwari Emirate Progressive Union (BEPU), Mr. Salisu Haruna, occurred on Wednesday night. According to him, the bandits who were armed with AK- 47 rifles, raided several houses in search of grains and other food items. The statement said the bandits went from house to house, looting property and food items, despite the location of a security outfit about three kilometres away from the community. “After relative calm along Birnin-Gwari-Funtua road after the sustained onslaught by security forces, we regret to inform the general public of an attack at Mando village, a distance of five kilometres from Birnin-Gwari town. “In the latest incident, armed bandits attacked Mando shortly after midnight around 1.30 am and abducted 18 people, including four nursing mothers. “The armed bandits did a house-to-house search for grains, other food items and property whose value is yet to be quantified. “The 18 people abducted include four nursing mothers with their babies and ten able men”. Spokesman of Kaduna State Police Command, Mohammed Jalige, did not respond to phone calls and text messages sent to him by THISDAY.