By Ugo Aliogo The Board of Junior Achievement Nigeria has appointed Foluso Gbadamosi as the new Executive Director of the organisation effective from January, 2021. A statement by the organisation said Gbadamosi joins JA Nigeria bringing on board many years of technology experience spanning across various sectors to accelerate JAN’s impact. According to the statement, the appointment came at a time when leveraging digital strategy to advance JA Nigeria’s cause had become inevitable. JAN had hit the one million reach milestone this year and the organisation was determined to reach the next million in five years. The statement explained that Gbadamosi would be responsible for providing the strategic direction and leadership necessary to drive developmental change and building on existing successes in furtherance of the mission and vision of JA Nigeria. It added that she would be at the helm of executing JA Nigeria’s transformational programmes. In addition, she would be responsible for charting a course for preserving existing partnerships and breaking new grounds, “all in a bid to raise more conscientious business leaders capable of leading a vibrant economy.” According to Gbadamosi, “I am excited to join JA Nigeria in this new role where I will be responsible for expanding the organisations’ impact by leveraging technology to empower and improve the lives of young people across the country, preparing them to own their economic future. “With a focus on digital transformation, my objective is to build on existing successes, using technology to provide solutions to impending challenges, particularly that of youth unemployment. “In line with JAN’s goal of reaching our next One Million students over the next five years, we also hope to raise 10,000 digital entrepreneurs my attention will be focused on devising strategic methods and partnerships through which JAN can significantly support young people to become conscientious business leaders” In his remarks, JA Nigeria Board Chair, Niyi Yusuf, noted: “Foluso’s appointment as ED of JAN after a painstaking process is appropriate given her background in technology, digital skills, leadership experience and ecosystem relationships which should enable a new phase of growth for JAN as we work to develop the next generation of digital entrepreneurs in Nigeria.