Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc has continued to make remarkable contributions to children’s lives in communities where it operates.
According to a statement, as part of its Corporate Social Investment (CSI) initiative, the financial institution’s Marketing and Corporate Communications department renovated the SOS Children’s Villages, Social Centre, located at Isolo in Lagos State. Members of the department gave the Social centre a face-lift with new wall paintings, sophisticated furniture, and donated an All-In-One computer to comfort the children in accessing the digital hub at their Ejigbo campus. The facility is home to over 300 youths and over 2000 youths around Ejigbo will benefit from the upgraded space which includes a lounge, hub furniture and the all-in-one computer donated. SOS Children’s Villages is a non-governmental and non-denominational organisation that supports and provides for vulnerable children and young people who lack the required family care, protection and guidance. Reiterating Stanbic IBTC’s commitment to continue making a positive impact in the society, the Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Bridget Oyefeso-Odusami, said the organisation was keen on collaborating with reputable bodies such as the SOS Children’s Villages to foster the development of the nation’s younger generation.
“We believe the future is digital, and we are happy to have donated useful items to enable the youths to stay up to date with digital learning, so they remain relevant in these times,” the statement. According to her, “At Stanbic IBTC, we are passionate about the wellbeing of our future leaders. As a socially responsible organisation, one of our major duties is to improve the quality of life of the needy in our society. This is what we aim to achieve through our Corporate Social Investment (CSI) initiatives.” Oyefeso-Odusami praised the management of the SOS Children’s Villages for their selfless service to humanity and encouraged the children to take advantage of the provisions made available within the facility. Expressing his gratitude to Stanbic IBTC for their thoughtfulness, Programme Director, SOS Children’s Villages Nigeria, Ayodeji Adelopo, said the donations would enhance the impact that the organisation’s impact in the lives of the children. “These children need a conducive environment to learn as well as access to emerging technology and the digital space. Stanbic IBTC has given these young ones the kind of luxury that is not available to them, and for this, we are very grateful,” he added.
Also, Face-to-Face Fundraising Coordinator, SOS Children’s Villages, Maryam Daramola, urged other corporate organisations, institutions, communities and governments to emulate the kind gesture of Stanbic IBTC in donating and partnering with them to make life better for the needy. Daramola stated that since the inception of the SOS Children’s Village, the organisation has consistently worked to keep families together, provide alternative care when needed, support young people on their path to independence, and advocate for children’s rights. The SOS Children’s Villages was founded in 1949 and is currently located in 135 countries and territories worldwide. The Nigerian arm of the organisation, established 46 years ago, has presence in Lagos, Ogun and Plateau as well as the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
Earlier on, the Lagos Island Zone of Stanbic IBTC Bank had also renovated Ayodele Primary School in Ajegunle, Lagos State while Stanbic IBTC Stockbrokers Limited refurbished Ijamido Children’s Home at Ota in Ogun State.