Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan An advertisement company, Fizzie Republic, has invented a new product, Portrait Pole Post (P3), which is an outdoor out of home (OOH) advertising product.
The Managing Director of the company, Mr. David Fasogbon, while speaking at the launch, said it was a graduation from the former A frame which was placed on the floor on the road. He said the idea behind the new product came when the former governor of Oyo State, late Senator Abiola Ajimobi, proscribed the placing of advertisement boards on the middle of the road, an act that always constituted threat to both the environmental outlook of Ibadan, the state capital, and vehicles on the roads. According to him, “We started with the A frame and there was a directive from the former governor in Oyo State that we’re littering the street, which was a candid decision because it was actually littering the street, because our A frames were put on the ground without really anything to fasten it to the ground, and anytime there is breeze, it blows them away and sometimes it hit a car, or litters the ground, so they were banned and proscribed. “So in the course of six years, the Lord has told me that this is where I’m going to make my money, and because of our initial ban, I didn’t let my creativity prowess stop at that so I didn’t relent. “We pieced the A frame into two and we got a fastener and we started fastening them to the pole, and we did some other inventions along the way and they became beautiful. Before we know what’s happening we started attracting brands.” The Chairman, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Council, Mr. Ademola Babalola, speaking on the invention, lauded Fasogbon for his ingenuity and sense of corporate responsibility, describing the accomplishment as another indication of the first mantra from Ibadan. He said the story of Fasogbon should serve as an inspiration to youths in the country that the business space in Nigeria was still very favourable to entrepreneurs with genuine viable visions.
Babalola, however, thanked him for offering to promote the activities of NUJ in the state free of charge on the P3.