By Hammed Shittu No fewer than nine out of the 16 local government council chairmen of All Progressives Congress(APC) in Kwara state on Friday pledged their support and said they were accountable to Hon Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa as State caretaker chairman in accordance with the APC Constitution. Some local government councils APC chairmen led by the chairman of the party in Ilorin West local government, Alhaji Sulyam Tejidin, had on Thursday thrown their weight behind Alhaji Samari Abdullahi as the acting chairman of the party in the state. Disquiet had been trailing the removal of Bolarinwa as the state chairman of the party as stakeholders of the party have been engaging themselves in a supremacy battle over the issue. Some stakeholders loyal to Bolarinwa led by Hon.Iyiola Oyedepo had kicked against the purported removal of Bolarinwa as the chairman of the party in the state. The other party stakeholders led by Hon. Kunle Sulyman had thrown their weight behind the appointment of Alhaji Samari Abdullahi as the acting chairman of the party in the state. But, the nine local government councils party chairmen in their joint statement after their meeting Friday in Ilorin said that Bolarinwa worked for the 100 per cent of APC success during the last general election and should not be removed for just no cause. The nine APC LG chairmen that signed the resolution are, APC chairmen in Ifelodun LG, Hon. Mohammed Shilo Awobimpe; Ilorin East, Elder. Babatunde Kolawole Asanlu; Asa, Ahaji Hassan Abdullahi; Irepodun, Hon. Aransiola Oyeyemi Samson; and Isin, Hon. Bamidele Ogunbayo. Others include; Ahaji Monsuru Ademola of Ilorin South LG, Hon. Taiye Olaniyi of Oyun LG, Hon. Yusuf Abdulganiyu Kehinde of Offa LG and Engr. Muhideen Shittu of Oke Ero LG. While justifying their position, they argued that the Hon. Bolarinwa piloted the struggle to liberate Kwarans from the the Peoples Democratic Party and won 100 percent in the past election, which made it a historic victory not only in Kwara but across Nigeria. They added that,, “The same Bolarinwa knelt down in public to apologise and beg other aggrieved aspirants on behalf of Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, so that they all work together to achieve the success we are all celebrating today. If Bolarinwa could have knelt down and begged with so much humility, why then is the Governor so desperate to remove him. “Since the emergence of the governor, we have not in anyway been able to sleep with our two eyes closed as the plot to destabilize the party keeps kicking day after day with all fingers pointing at the governor. The chairmen warned Ilorin West LG chairman of the party, Alhaji Sulyman Tejidini, to stop misrepresenting the APC Local Government Caretaker Chairmen for his self serving personal interest. They said, “The Governor should call these imposters destabilizing the party to order not to cause division within the party henceforth, if truly he isn’t the architect of their mischief. “We stand fully with BOB and hereby pass Vote of Confidence on his chairmanship”.