By Emma Okonji As part of its commitment to ensuring access to affordable broadband connectivity in Africa’s underserved populations, Tizeti, West Africa’s solar-based internet service provider is rolling out its 4G LTE network in Edo State, with monthly fixed broadband costs pegged at N4, 000. With this development , millions of people in Edo State previously outside the broadband space, can now take advantage of high-speed broadband internet from Tizeti, the company said in a statement. Announcing the rollout of its new low-cost unlimited 4G services in Edo, the Chief Executive Officer of Tizeti, Kendall Ananyi, said the 4G broadband internet would empower more Nigerians in Edo State, stimulate economic activities and provide unlimited access to affordable and reliable broadband services as well as complement the Edo State Government’s efforts in driving investment promotion and building a robust technology ecosystem in the state. According to him, “Rolling out 4G LTE broadband internet in Edo at the cheapest fixed broadband prices in Nigeria, and possibly Africa, is a strategic decision for us. We have been building brand-new, solar-powered, 4G-capable towers in Edo, starting with Benin City, which leverages Edo State’s expansive fiber-network built by some of our partners, MainOne and Facebook. “Edo State has a large population of vibrant, young people and a high number of higher institutions, which provides a foundation for a robust and thriving ecosystem to enable digital leadership. The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, is implementing reforms in investment promotion and determination to build a robust technology ecosystem in the state, with an agenda that prioritises Information Communication Technology (ICT)-compliant pedagogy in primary schools, improves digital skills for students and graduates and revamps technical education to increase productivity.” This he added, created a perfect environment for Tizeti to roll out its low-cost broadband service, starting in Edo State, but with plans to expand across the country over the next few months. Tizeti’s Chief Operating Officer, Ifeanyi Okonkwo, said: “The launch in Edo State is personal to us as founders of Tizeti because we are alumni of the University of Benin. At N4,000 monthly costs with a one-off installation cost of N4,000, we believe the plan is affordable, especially to undergraduate students. This provides a huge opportunity for people in Edo to benefit from unlimited broadband internet for use in online learning, eCommerce and entertainment, especially interactive games, video consumption, and music.”