By Eromosele Abiodun The Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, has promised to prioritise maritime education and ensure professionalism in the transport sector. He stated this during his inaugurated as Chairman, Governing Board of the Centre for Logistics and Transport Studies (CELTRAS), University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT). The inauguration, which took place at the university’s Institute of Petroleum Studies Auditorium, was supervised by the acting Vice Chancellor of Uniport, Prof. Stephen Okodudu. Jamoh’s investiture followed his appointment in October as Chairman of the 10-member Governing Board of CELTRAS. Okodudu had said Jamoh was chosen by virtue of his position as Director-General of NIMASA, emphasising that his appointment “is an eloquent testimony to your outstanding contributions to national development.” In his remarks after the inauguration, Jamoh, who holds a doctorate in Logistics and Transport Management from the University of Port Harcourt, said he felt honoured, “to lead this great team towards accomplishment of the noble mission and objectives of the Centre for Logistics and Transport Studies.” He vowed to ensure professionalism in the transport sector, while working hand-in-hand with the Governing Board to achieve the set goals of CELTRAS. “Transportation is life and life is transportation,” Jamoh stated, adding that he and the Board would strive to surpass the university’s target and intention for creating the Centre. “NIMASA, on its part, has a mandate enshrined in its enabling Act, which includes maritime education. It would be all hands on deck and, hopefully, we shall achieve the mandate of maritime education and professionalism in the country,” he said. With the inauguration of the CELTRAS Board coming at a time when the federal government was trying to improve and expand the transportation infrastructure across the country, Jamoh said the Centre had its work cut out. “Without professional transporters in our sector, this infrastructure will continue to dilapidate,” the Director-General said. “Therefore, it is not by accident that we are gathered here to inaugurate this board to ensure that we produce professionals, and encourage research towards development of the transportation sector,” he added. Earlier, Okodudu appreciated NIMASA for its contributions to CELTRAS, particularly the construction of an office complex for the Centre. He said he was impressed with the pace of the Centre’s growth from a humble beginning in 2012. “When I behold the edifice being built to house CELTRAS, I am very impressed that we are benefitting from the dividends of creativity,” the Vice Chancellor said. Acting Director of CELTRAS, Dr. Gladys Emenike, disclosed that the Centre had graduated three PhD students, including Jamoh. CELTRAS, a foremost centre for logistics, transport and supply chain management in Nigeria, was established in 2012. Its mission includes production of qualified professionals with adequate knowledge and practical skills to understand and solve logistics and transport problems in the country. The Governing Board of CELTRAS is charged with the responsibility of identifying and developing strategies for the Centre’s growth, and effective and mutually beneficial relationship with government and industry. Other members of the Board are Managing Director/CEO, Delta Marine Limited; representative of the Minister of Transportation; representative of the Rivers State Commissioner for Transport; representative of the Corps Marshal/CEO, Federal Road Safety Corps; National Executive Director, Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport Nigeria; Director-General, Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology; Dean, School of Graduate Studies, University of Port Harcourt; Dean, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Port Harcourt; and Acting Director, Centre for Logistics and Transport Studies, University of Port Harcourt.