By Emma Okonji Airtel Nigeria has been recognised for its efforts in storytelling and PR innovation at the 5th edition of the Lagos Public Relations and Industry Gala (LaPRIGA), a communications industry event at the instance of the Lagos Chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations. The Corporate Communications Department of Airtel Nigeria has also been awarded the ‘Best Corporate Communications Team’ in Africa by the Sustainability, Entrepreneurship and Responsibility Awards (SERAs), an award platform designed to celebrate excellence in the practice of Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Africa. According to the citation read in honour of Airtel Nigeria at the LaPRIGA event, the telco was bestowed with ‘Best Brand in Storytelling’ and ‘Best Innovation in PR Practice’ awards for scoring high on a wide range of parameters ranging from creativity, storytelling and proactively engaging its various stakeholders. The Panel of Judges of the SERAs said the Airtel Nigeria Corporate Communications department has consistently and flawlessly designed and implemented programmes to not just uplift the vulnerable, underprivileged and hard-to-reach in the society but has been unwavering in its commitment of championing corporate philanthropy and exemplary CSR practice in Nigeria. Commenting on the awards, the Director, Corporate Communications and CSR at Airtel Nigeria, Emeka Oparah, thanked the organisers of LaPRIGA and SERAs for creating platforms to recognise and reward excellence in the practice of Public Relations and CSR/Sustainability in Nigeria. He expressed appreciation to his team members and to the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, who, according to him, is extremely passionate about CSR and giving and always goes the extra mile to ensure that the Corporate Communications team gets all the support it requires. “Airtel Nigeria dedicates the SERAs award to the underprivileged Nigerians who we strive daily to support through our flagship CSR initiative, Airtel Touching Lives. If we haven’t touched your life directly yet, hopefully we will do so soon,” Oparah said. Over 400 leading communications professionals in consultancies, government, corporate and not-for-profit organizations, captains of industry including media personalities, academia and C-Suite executives from across different sectors and industries attended this year’s edition of the event. In the last 13 years, the SERA awards have attracted over 1242 entries from over 300 organisations. The awards process that ensures physical verification and documentation of projects entered via site photography, videos, and interviews of various stakeholders, has visited over 5000 project locations around Africa.