By Ugo Aliogo Delta State Governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and his Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, have congratulated the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr Chiedu Ebie, on his 50th birth anniversary at the weekend. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, Okowa thanked Ebie for his outstanding contributions to governance in the state, especially when he was Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, and now, SSG. He remarked that Ebie, an astute lawyer, has brought to bear in the governance of the state, his experience from his distinguished career in the private sector as an entrepreneur and oil and gas executive. Okowa urged him to sustain his contributions to state and humanity by enunciating more ideas and strategies that would lead to the efficiency and effectiveness of governance and sustainable development of the state. He acknowledged Ebie’s sound knowledge of governance, saying “with his core competences in strong leadership and execution skills, Ebie has brought his wealth of experience to bear by providing leadership towards the attainment of the Stronger Delta agenda of our administration. “Over the years, your sound and unblemished leadership style as an industry player has endeared you to many Deltans and Nigerians. “As Secretary to State Government, you have exhibited absolute knowledge of your core responsibilities with your robust coordination of government in the state. “We appreciate your role in the revamping of schools sports through the Zenith Bank Delta Principal’s and Headmaster’s Cup under your tenure as Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education.’’ “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I congratulate you, my dear brother and friend, Mr Chiedu Ebie, on the occasion of your 50th birth anniversary, Okowa said. On his part, Aniagwu in a statement, described Ebie as an outstanding professional whose accomplishments in private and public service were laudable and worthy of emulation. He said the state scribe has contributed immensely to the realisation of the Smart and Stronger Delta agenda of the Okowa led administration in the state. He commended him for his laudable contributions towards the growth of grassroot sports in the state. “On behalf of my family, the management and staff of the Delta State Ministry of Information, I congratulate a great son of Ika and an exemplary Deltan, Mr. Chiedu Ebie, as he clocks the golden age. “As a member of the State Executive Council, I can testify of your sound professionalism and work ethics in handling matters of state. “Your mastery of governance and coordination of the various ministries, departments, parastatals and agencies of governance is worthy of commendation.”