*  IG probes Apostle Suleiman’s alleged sex scandal Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the suspension of Mohammed I. Musa a Superintendent of Police (SP) following a recommendation by the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. Musa has been in the eye of the storm over allegations that he had illicit sexual affair with the wife of a top police. This is coming as the Inspector-General of Police, Adamu has ordered a probe of the General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleiman, over alleged carnal knowledge with the wife of Pastor Mike Davids, a pastor in his church. The pastor also accused Suleiman of threatening his life and denying him access to his children. The suspension order approved by the Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the Commission, Mr Ferdinard Eke, said the suspension followed a recommendation by the IG. “Please refer to your letter with reference number 105697/FS/FHQ/AB3/13 dated January 19, 2021 on the above subject matter, 1 am directed to write and convey the approval. “In accordance with the Public Service Rule 030413, the Commission has approved the suspension of Mohammed I. Musa, a Superintendent of Police from performing the functions of his office with effect from 20th January, 2021”, it read. The commission further said “You are required to furnish the commission with information on further development on the matter”. The letter did not make any reference to his alleged affair with the wife of any police officer. Meanwhile, Adamu has ordered a probe of the Suleiman, over alleged carnal knowledge the wife of Pastor Mike Davids, a pastor in his church. The wife, Pastor Faith Edeko, heads the Utako, Abuja branch of Omega Fire Ministries while her husband has left the church. The pastor also accused Suleiman of threatening his life and denying him access to his children. The IG in a letter addressed to the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Force Intelligence Bureau dated January 5, 2021 ordered an investigation into the allegation. The letter, with reference number CB:7000/IGP.SEC/ABJ/Vol.515/561, was signed by the Principal Staff Officer II to the Inspector-General of Police, ACP Iliya Doma. The letter followed a petition written by V.C Ezenagu & Associates on behalf of the aggrieved pastor.