The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has urged the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agent (ANLCA) to expose unscrupulous elements who hide under the association to perpetuate dubious crimes. The SON Director General, Mallam Farouk Salim, stated that exposing dealers would go a long way to protect the image of the association as well as safeguarding the lives and property of Nigerians. A statement quoted the Director General to have said this during an interactive session with ANLCA in Lagos. He said the impact of substandard good on the nation was huge leading to job losses, pointing out that substandard goods have no economic value. He reiterated the agency’s resolve towards combating fake and substandard goods in the country while also improving the lives of Nigerians through quality assurance. He called on Nigerians to be patriotic to take the country to the next level, pointing out that doing things the right way would make Nigeria achieve economic stability while also preparing for the unborn generation. Responding, the ANLCA President, Iju Tony Nwabunike, restated the association’s commitment to work with SON. He said SON’s automation process scheduled to be in full gear next year would make cargo clearance seamless at the ports. “We are going forward and we are hoping to see a very wonderful automation of SON,” he said. He said with the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCFTA) scheduled to commence next year, there is an urgent need for all hands to be on deck to make Nigeria goods competitive. “The trade pact would expose so many things and on that note I will want you to buckle your shoes more on areas of partnership with Nigerian Customs to achieve seamless port operations. “We are going to do so many things to challenge our African counterparts on areas of commodities and products. He assured SON that it would engage importers to always insist on standards whenever they import, stressing that standards must not be compromised. “We would put our heads together and also tell our importers that whenever they go to import, they must always insist on standards and these standards cannot be compromised He urged the standards body to increase its sensitisation programmes across the nation, saying that the more Nigerians are sensitised, the more they would do the right thing. “We know SON places paramount importance on sensitisation and we implore you not to relent on this programme. Every individual and property must be protected and we are going to work together,” he said. The Vice President of the association, Kayode Farinto, decried the nature of some players who failed to conform with SON’s regulations and pledged that the group would not relent to collaborate with the agency in ensuring full declaration and allowing total inspection on cargoes. He said as experts in the industry, the association would assist SON to ensure that some members who are naturally non-comformist change their attitude in their dealings. He also sought the inclusion of SON into NICIS, saying this is the surest way to achieve a seamless clearance of cargoes at the nation’s port