Stories by Emma Okonji The Accra Institute of Technology (AIT), which has been consistently ranked the top private University in Ghana and one of leading educational institutions in West Africa, has been announced the winner of the three most prestigious awards at the just-ended 2020 UMB Ghana Tertiary Awards in Accra. The triple awards were: The Most Outstanding Institution in COVID-19 Times Award; The Best Technology University Award and The Best Educator of The Year Award to the President of AIT. As one of the ECOWAS sub-region’s top education centres, AIT is home to thousands of Nigerians and other West African students.
Accra Institute of Technology has won the Best Technology University for the fourth year running. The position was put to test when COVID-19 set in with the university coming out with excellence in demonstrating how to deploy technologies and systems to ensure uninterrupted academic activity in an educational institution even in the face of a global pandemic. AIT since its inception in 2009 has extensively been deploying cutting-edge educational delivery technologies and systems to support teaching and learning in all its undergraduate and postgraduate programs. The Registrar and Chief of Administration of AIT, Mr. Dominic Osei-Boakye, while receiving the awards, on behalf of the university, said: “As the only university in Ghana operating both campus-based and open university systems, AIT is one of the few universities in the sub-region to easily and seamlessly roll-over all its academic program delivery and operations online during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Therefore, campus-based face-to-face teaching and learning had zero impact on the operations of the university. This success among many others is what accounted for the award for the Most Outstanding Institution in Covid-19 times.”
He added: “The AIT success story cannot be told without mentioning the creativity, strong leadership, and direction from its President, Prof. Clement Dzidonu. The award-winning Professor has, through AIT transformed educational delivery in the country using Technology. Boakye expressed appreciation to the organisers for recognising AIT’s achievements as a leading technology university providing quality tertiary education in Ghana.
The Award is instituted and awarded by the Ghana Tertiary Awards.