Renowned philanthropist and Founder of FCMB Group, Otunba Olasubomi Balogun, has rattled the board with his latest gesture: the donation of a world-class health centre for the treatment and care of children in Ogun State. It is no news that Otunba Balogun started off a health care facility project in Ijebu-Ode with the intention to provide health care services to residents of the town, local government area, and Ogun State in general. Otunba Tunwase National Paediatric Centre (OTNPC), is reportedly valued at more than ₦5 billion and caters especially to the care of children. What is news is that Otunba Balogun has handed over this multibillion-naira centre to the management of the University of Ibadan (UI) and the University College Hospital (UCH). Raising the bar on charity donations, the representative of Otunba Balogun (FCMB Group Chief Executive, Ladi Balogun) at the handover ceremony (January 19, 2021) explained that the FCMB founder was inspired to take up the responsibility for children’s health care after interacting with Prof. Olikoye Ransome-Kuti (now late), a former minister of Health. Ladi Balogun noted that this interchange sharpened Otunba’s resolve to raise the standards of children’s health. Ladi Balogun further explained that having OTNPC under the management of UI and UCH is Otunba Balogun’s idea for advancing his objective of bridging the gap between sick and suffering children, and the level of health care that is supposed to be available to them. Thus, counting on the prestige and pedigrees of UI and UCH, they are the best choice for the centre. The administrators of UI and UCH praised the gesture of Otunba Subomi Balogun, noting his several other philanthropic donations in times past. They commended the FCMB founder’s unrelenting ambition to revolutionise the health care system and suggested that he has already accomplished this to a commendable degree. Nearing his 87th year, Otunba Subomi Balogun is a legend of banking and philanthropy. This latest gesture, however, is in a league of its own.