Former Paris St-Germain Manager, Thomas Tuchel, has been scheduled to take over from Frank Lampard who after 18 months in charge at Stamford Bridge was fired Monday afternoon. Lampard, 42, leaves with the club ninth in the Premier League after last week’s defeat at Leicester City, having won once in their past five league matches. His final game was Sunday’s 3-1 FA Cup fourth-round win against Luton. Lampard was appointed on a three-year contractwhen he replaced Maurizio Sarri at Stamford Bridge in July 2019. The former Chelsea midfielder guided the Blues to fourth place and the FA Cup final in his first season in charge, and a 3-1 win against Leedsin early December put the club top of the Premier League. However, the Chelsea have suffered five defeats in their past eight league games, as many as they had in their previous 23. In a statement, Chelsea said: “This has been a very difficult decision, and not one that the owner and the board have taken lightly. “We are grateful to Frank for what he has achieved in his time as head coach of the club. However, recent results and performances have not met the club’s expectations, leaving the club mid-table without any clear path to sustained improvement. “There can never be a good time to part ways with a club legend such as Frank, but after lengthy deliberation and consideration it was decided a change is needed now to give the club time to improve performances and results this season.” Owner Roman Abramovich said Lampard’s status as an “important icon” of the club “remains undiminished” despite his dismissal. “This was a very difficult decision for the club, not least because I have an excellent personal relationship with Frank and I have the utmost respect for him,” said Abramovich. “He is a man of great integrity and has the highest of work ethics. However, under current circumstances we believe it is best to change managers.” Hire and fire has become a recurrent decimal at Chelsea, with the frequency more rampant since Russian Billionaire, Abramovich bought the club 17 and a half years ago. Below is list of men who have managed Chelsea since 1986; 1. Bobby Campbell 2. Ian Porterfield 3. David Webb 4. Glenn Hoddle 5. Ruud Gullit 6. Gianluca Vialla 7. Ray Wilkins 8. Claudio Ranieri 9. Jose Mourinho 10. Avram Grant 11. Felipe Scholari 12. Ray Wilkins 13. Guus Hidink 14. Carlo Ancelotti 15. Andre Villas Boas 16. Roberto Di Matteo 17. Rafael Benitez 18. Jose Mourinho 19. Guus Hiddink 20. Maurizio Sarri 21. Antonio Conte 22. Frank Lampard 23. Thomas Tuchel ????