By Funmi Ogundare About 5000 teachers are currently benefitting from Gradely Technology Solutions Limited videoconferencing training which kicked-off on January 15, 2021. The training tagged Teachers’ Academy 2021′, which saw them being drawn from across 500 schools in Lagos, Abuja as well as other states across the federation, will expose the teachers to tangible ways of bridging the learning gaps and online schooling transition challenges, caused by the effect of school closure due to Covid-19 pandemic. It will afford them opportunity to learn the intricacies of adaptive learning, critical thinking and creativity with technology, to enable them use complex digital learning environments to ease their students’ pain points and help them improve and achieve mastery in class. To ensure that the 5,000 teachers are really impacted, a train-the-trainer approach will be used to train two teachers from each registered school, to pass on the knowledge to their colleagues. The schools with top performers of the training will be rewarded with a 30-day free trial of Gradely’s new, soon-to-be launched Learning Management System (LMS), with catchUp video lesson and game resources to support at home learning for all their students. Training and addressing the teachers at the academy this year will be Dr. Ify Obidi, Executive Director at Tech Savvy Teachers International; National Director at OBAX Academy Worldwide; Mrs. Adeiye, Executive Director at Nurture House Limited, Mrs. Ayopeju Njideaka, Mr. Adeyinka Adekitan, H.O.D Mathematics at Rainbow College, Lagos State; Mr. Alomaja Adebayo, CEO, Eazy-Digi Edtech Solutions and Mr. Seyi Adelaju, Co-Founder and Growth Lead at GradelyNG.
The training is expected to climax on January 22. The Gradely LMS, known as Gradely For Schools, is a homegrown, world class LMS, built for personalised learning with features such as live classes to organise and hold engaging class experiences, assessment tools to set up robust and relevant assessment formats fitted with the Nigerian (WASSCE and NECO) and British (IGCSE) curriculum-aligned question pool, a personalised video lesson and games library to support in-class efforts with students at home and a proctored examination system to hold credible remote academic evaluations. In order to support the public during the first school closure in March last year, Gradely offered 1,000 children the opportunity to continue learning online for free, through live classes and it was successfully concluded in September 2020, exceeding the initial target by 300. The organisation was also awarded the most adaptive learning software in Nigeria by the Federal Ministry of Education at the inaugural edition of the Edtech summit awards.