By Oghenevwede Ohwovoriole An industrialist, Chief Sam Ohuabunwa, yesterday in Abuja kick-started a political move with the aim of wresting power from the current politicians in 2023, promising a ‘revolution of ideas’ in Nigeria if given the opportunity in the political space to serve. Launching the movement tagged: ‘The New Nigeria Group (NNG)’, Ohuabunwa said solving Nigerian economic problem is very simple, and it is not as complex as it seems to the current operators. “We don’t need a violent revolution to change Nigeria, it a revolution of ideas that we need to change this country. “Solving Nigerian economic problem is as simple as ABC if there is sanctity of contract, safety of life and prosperity, as well as improved ease of doing business,’’ he stated. The businessman said the group’s vision for Nigeria was to make the country a first world nation, where all citizens live in harmony; treated equally to achieve peace and prosperity for all with a mission-plan to mobilise like-minded citizens to install enlightened, visionary and committed leadership in Nigeria that will motivate the country to optimise its human and material resources to attain global competitiveness. The former chairman of SURE-P in the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan added that if Nigeria solves the problems of poverty and injustice, it would have solved four of Nigeria’s major problems-poverty, corruption, injustice and insecurity. According to him, “Solve poverty and that will largely solve the problem of corruption, solve injustice and that will largely deal with insecurity also. “Many of us have written and canvassed for nearly 30 years, but nothing has changed. Eleven years after my book, the new Nigeria has refused to emerge because others and I believed that ours is to just suggest and government will do the needful, but as you can see, we have to step in and do it ourselves.” Promising to bring godliness and morality into politics, he used the opportunity to advocate for every Nigerian youth to learn to be a wealth creator rather than job seeker, saying: “It is our individual economic contributions” that enhance national economic growth. The chairman of the occasion, Mohammed Auwal, said the Nigerian state is failing and suffering, adding that it is no longer news that the current government came with great expectations from the people, but it has turned out to be the worst. The Royal Father of the day, Oba Olarewaju Ajayi, the traditional ruler of Gbomina Ekiti, was full of praises for Ohuabunwa, saying he has known him for a long time since his days at the university. “I have known him since our university days, but he didn’t know me; these are the kind of people we want to govern this country because he is a very good man with good qualities,” he stated. The Chairman Nigerian Union of Journalist (NUJ), Abuja chapter, Mr. Emmanuel Ogbeche, said the media accepted to be part of the discussion so that it can hold political office holders accountable to the promises they made. “For any progress to be made, an elite consensus must be reached. We will hold those in NNG accountable; negotiate our future with them and see if we can sign a pact with them,” he stated.