By Segun Awofadeji Gombe State is partnering Qatar Charity Foundation (QCF) to construct a befitting School of Nursing in the state and improve on human resource in the health sector. The Governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Yahaya recently visited the Abuja office of the Qatar Charity Foundation (QCF) where he met with the Country Director, Sheikh Hamdi Elsayed and other officials of the foundation. Top on the agenda of the meeting was the proposed construction of a befitting School of Nursing in Gombe with state of the art facilities. The Senior Special Assistant(Media and Publicity) to the State Governor, Ismaila Uba Misilli, in a statement available to journalists in Gombe, Governor Yahaya hinged the decision to build new school of nursing in Gombe on his administration’s resolve to reposition the health sector and revitalise the hospitals both at primary and secondary levels with more trained health personnel to fill the human resource gap. He hinted that already, a five- hectare land has been earmarked for the construction of the 600-students capacity health institution, with provision of classes, hostels, laboratories, sporting arena and other educational and recreational facilities. Governor Yahaya presented a comprehensive working drawing to the Qatari foundation helmsman for necessary inputs and actions.
Already, Gombe State and the foundation have a subsisting Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the provision of social amenities in some communities across the 11 local government areas of the state in support of the governor’s commitment to the welfare of his people. Sheikh Hamdi Elsayed disclosed that the foundation has concluded arrangements for immediate construction of 20 15,000-litre capacity special solar powered boreholes and additional 80 5,000-litre capacity ones to be drilled later. Governor Yahaya has already directed the commissioner of water resources to carry out survey and submit coordinates of areas for immediate commencement of work at the benefiting communities. Similarly, the Qatari foundation disclosed plan to provide medical services to over 1,000 eye patients with at least 150 surgeries expected to be performed in Gombe state. Governor Inuwa Yahaya who commended the partnership between Gombe State and the Qatar foundation, assured that his administration will continue to collaborate with the organisation in areas of needs and interest of the people of the state.