Peter Taiwo Kidnap kingpin, Chukwudimeme Onwuamadike, alias Evans, has denied all criminal allegations of kidnapping against him by the State of Lagos, while insisting that he is a legitimate businessman. The alleged Kingpin told Justice Hakeem Oshodi of an Ikeja High Court, Lagos, that his name isn’t Evans and that he only admitted being a kidnapper immediately after the Police killed four suspects, who refused to cooperate with them. The Defendant made this revelation while being led in defence by his counsel, Victor Okpara. However, Evans is standing trial alongside Uche Amadi, Ogechi Uchechukwu, Chilaka Ifeanyi, Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu and Victor Aduba over the alleged kidnap of Mr. Donatius Dunu, who is the Chief Executive Officer of Maydon Pharmaceutical Ltd. The six Defendants were arraigned on August 30, 2017 on two counts of conspiracy and kidnapping. While testifying before the court, Evans stated: “My name is Chukwudumeme Somtochukwu Onwuamadike. I am from Nnewi North Local government in Anambra State. I live at Fred Shoboyede Street, Magodo Phase II Lagos. I am a businessman and I deal in Ornaments and Horlicks”. When asked if his name or nickname is Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike alias Evans as alleged by the Prosecution, he replied, “My Lord, my name is not Evans and I don’t have a nickname”. In his defence over the alleged offence of conspiracy and kidnapping, alongside other Defendants , Evans narrated that he has never met the other Defendants before, except on the day the Police paraded them at Area F, Ikeja. The alleged kingpin said: ” What I can remember is that on Saturday, 10th of June, 2017, a group of armed Policemen stormed my residence at Magodo. On that fateful day, which was a Saturday morning, I heard some people banging at my gate and I instructed my security guard to find out who it was. The security man returned to inform me that it was the Police, and I instructed him to open the gate for them. “When he opened the gate, I came downstairs to meet with them. But, immediately I opened my security door, they rushed at me. The Police Officers that came to my house are: Mr Philip Elelenwa, Mr Idowu Haruna, one Mr Christian and other Police Officers. “They asked if I was the one living in the house, and immediately I replied ‘yes’, Mr Philip screamed, ‘Oya get in’. “They started beating me and hit my head with a gun. I was beaten to the ground. They dragged me back into the house and ransacked my bedroom, my wife’s and children’s bedroom. They searched everywhere, and packed some items out of my house. “They brought me downstairs again, and Mr Philip ordered them to handcuff me. Then I began asking them what offence did I commit. They told me to shut up that I am a criminal; armed robber, ritualist etc. They called me all sort of names. I now begged them to allow me call my people but they refused. “I also told him that I didn’t kidnap anybody, and that I was in my house on that fateful day, which was February 14, tagged as Lovers Day. I told the IPO that if he wants to confirm the truth, he should go to my Estate and investigate.” In court, the Prosecutor then asked Evans to confirm that on the day he was first arraigned before Justice Oshodi, that the charges of the alleged offences were read to his hearing and he understood same. Evans replied yes, and affirmed that he had pleaded guilty to the charges. But, added that there was a reason behind his earlier guilty plea before the court. When asked if he watched the two video clips (exhibits) which was played before the court showing him confessing to the alleged offences during a closed door interview by the PW 4 (Prosecution witness) – Inspector Idowu Haruna, Evans replied yes. The Prosecuting counsel also asked the witness if he could recall admitting on the video tape that his name is Evans, and also admitting to all the charges against him. “My Lord, I can’t remember that”, Evans said. Justice Hakeem Oshodi adjourned the matter to February 5, 2021 for continuation of trial.