Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Department of State Security (DSS) yesterday said it had launched an investigation into the activities of suspected fake job syndicates responsible for scamming job seekers. It also denied false recruitment alerts circulating on social media that the agency was conducting a recruitment exercise. A statement issued by the Spokesman of the DSS, Dr Peter Afunanya, said the agency was sustaining efforts on clamping down on the activities of fake job syndicates illegally using its name to deceive and scam the public. “Those engaged in misleading acts of raising false recruitment alerts or defrauding others are warned to desist from such or be ready to face the music. “So far, the service is sustaining efforts on clamping down on the activities of fake job syndicates illegally using its name to deceive and scam the public”, it said. The agency denied false recruitment alerts indicating that it had commenced the recruitment of fresh personnel. “The Department of State Services (DSS) wishes to inform the public that it is not currently carrying out any recruitment exercise. This clarification has become necessary in view of desperate efforts by fraudsters to scam unsuspecting job seekers or their sponsors. The public should note that recruitment into the service is never done on monetary basis. Instead, it is guided by merit and transparency. Beneficiaries undergo series of screening and vetting processes and procedures through which only the best, produced by these, is taken. “In the context of this, members of the public should be mindful of attempts by fraudulent persons and groups to fleece them of their hard earned money. They should rather report to the service any suspicion in this regard,” it said. The agency warned those engaged in misleading acts of raising false recruitment alerts or defrauding others to desist from such or be ready to face the full wrath of the law. “So far, the service is sustaining efforts on clamping down on the activities of fake job syndicates illegally using its name to deceive and scam the public,” it said.