Globacom, a Nigerian multinational telecommunications company, at the weekend disclosed that it had begun the registration of people for the National Identification Number (NIN) at several of its retail outlets across the country. This was revealed in a statement by Glo Corporate Communications Office on Friday, saying arrangements are being concluded for retail outlets that are not live yet for NIN enrolment to also begin soon The statement said the telecom giant started NIN enrolment in its retail outlets in different parts of the federation following the decision of the Nigerian Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to grant it approval licence to commence NIN enrolment for people who are yet to register. The statement said the company had already deployed devices aligned with NIMC standards and has commenced the exercise in several Gloworld outlets, adding that arrangements are being concluded for retail outlets that are not live yet for NIN enrolment to also begin soon. The company explained that Globacom subscribers who already have their NIN but are yet to link them with their mobile numbers can do so by simply texting their NIN to 109. Alternatively, the statement said the subscribers “may dial *109# to submit their NIN. Customers can also call 109 to update their NIN via voice call. “Globacom subscribers with additional enquiries are equally encouraged to contact any of its customer contact channels or visit the company website. Globacom restated its commitment to ensuring that customers have uninterrupted experience on its network as well as its support for the government’s efforts to create a secure and sustainable industry. Ugwuanyi Constitutes Water Corporation Board Enugu State Governor, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has approved the constitution of the Board of the State Water Corporation with Engr. Innocent O. Diyoke as Chairman. The approval for the constitution of the water corporation board was contained in a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya. Other members of the board, according to the statement, are Engr. Sam Ugwuanyi, Engr. Chibuzo Luke Aka, Engr. (Mrs.) Chinwe Mbah, Engr. Eugene Okwu and Mr. Nonso Nnamani.