In line with its commitment to deliver impactful community-focused initiatives, FBNQuest, the investment banking and asset management subsidiary of FBN Holdings Plc, has continued to strengthen its partnership with Teach for Nigeria (TFN) by supporting the TFN Incubation Hub Pitch Contest and the TFN Annual Mentoring Programme. Teach for Nigeria is a non-profit organization committed to developing leaders and promoting educational development across the nation by recruiting graduates and professionals to teach in under-served schools as full-time teachers. FBNQuest partnered with TFN on its Incubation Hub Pitch Contest, a 3-month Incubation Programme that provides TFN alumni a unique opportunity to accelerate growth through their social impact projects. The Incubation Hub is designed to equip participants with the practical knowledge required to build and sustain their enterprise. This is delivered through an intensive training workshop, access to post-program support, mentoring and an opportunity to pitch for seed funding for their enterprise. The Bookaclan Literacy and No Box Initiatives emerged as winners of the contest and were given seed funding to scale their projects in 2021. Commenting on the Incubation Hub Programme, Folawe Omikunle, CEO, Teach for Nigeria stated “We are on a mission to address educational inequality in Nigeria. We believe that equipping our alumni with the skills and knowledge to start and scale their initiatives will bring us closer to our vision of educating all children in Nigeria”. Employees of FBNQuest also volunteered to mentor TFN Fellows in the area of professional development as they transition from the Fellowship programme, as well as support them to implement their social impact project themed Be the Change Projects in their placement schools. Commenting on the partnership with Teach for Nigeria, Lolade Sasore, Head, People & Knowledge Engagement at FBNQuest stated “We recognise the role education plays as a catalyst for growth and development, and we remain committed to equipping our youth with the right skills to excel.“Through this and other partnerships, we hope to provide access to more opportunities for young leaders to actively contribute to building a stable economy.” she added.FBNQuest continues to demonstrate its commitment to supporting and enabling education in Nigeria through its various education investment products designed to secure the future of young adults. Some of the products include the FBN Education Endowment Plan and the Children Education Trust. FBNQuest also participates in various knowledge and skills development initiatives, as well as people empowerment and financial literacy initiatives to build future leaders.