The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, vows that the PIB bill will be passed by April, writes Adelaja Samuel Crude oil discovery in Nigeria has been a mixed bag of blessing and curse. Development experts often refer to a pathetic scenario when discovered natural resource becomes a source of strife and a bigger problem as a resource curse; it is indeed a paradox of plenty. The oil boom of the early 70s in Nigeria brought a doom of a sort. Agriculture which was the mainstay of the nation’s economy was benched for the free and easy money from crude oil. Palm oil which was produced in commercial volume before the oil boom was abandoned for peasant farmers in the Mid-west and Eastern parts of Nigeria; ditto cocoa in the West, cotton and groundnut in the North. Malaysia took the lead in palm oil production in the world from the seedlings it reportedly took from Nigeria. Not all, the resource curse also bred ethnic and militia struggle as indigenous land owners where crude oil resides lay claim on their ancestral land. They called for Resource Control. Consensus was reached for derivation earnings. The oil communities and states got a fairly bigger share of the cake to douse tension. Yet, the problems remain unabated. Not even the upward review of derivations earnings could assuage the yearnings of agitating communities. Poverty, under- development and lack and want were commonplace in the oil-rich region. Emergency billionaires emerged without lifting a pin, and wanton greed, corruption worsened the lot of the masses in the area. Environmental Activist, Ken Saro-Wiwa and his fellow kinsmen drew the ire of callous, brutal Nigeria’s dictator, late General Sani Abacha over agitation for better deal and regeneration of degraded Ogoni-land. They paid with their lives. The struggle continues till date leaving pain and blood on the trail. The distraction of crude oil and the neglect of other real sectors of the economy were really calamitous. Till date, crude oil still dominates Nigeria’s economy, accounting for around 90% of export earnings. The country has the largest oil and gas reserves in sub-Saharan Africa with an estimated 37bn barrels of oil and 188 trillion cubic feet of gas, according to a report by African Business. The largely ungovernable industry has cost the country unimaginable fortunes. Everything is vague and international interests and multinational corporations exploit the loose and unstructured industry to their advantage. Joint ventures between oil giants and the nation’s oil corporation cum regulator, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) were skewed in favour of the oil firms. “Value has leached away through opaque licensing deals, unaccountable middlemen, a lack of refining capacity and graft in the government and state-owned NNPC. Sabotage and pipeline theft in the oil-rich Niger Delta have ensured that the taxpayer loses out on billions of dollars in annual revenues”, an article titled, ‘What is Nigeria’s Petroleum Industry Bill and why is it significant?’ published in a African Business aptly captured. To better harness the potential and plug massive wastages in the sector, successive governments since the inception of the current democratic dispensation tried to enact governance and order in the sector without much success. The Muhammadu Buhari government made honest efforts culminating in a new version of PIB distilled into four critical segments. The House of Representatives Speaker, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, a man of action who has shown exemplary leadership over and again since he assumed office as Speaker has shown more than passing interest in the bill. This time around, he stamped his feet and resisted further dilly-dally on the all-crucial piece of legislation. He staked his reputation and assured the world that in barely three months away, PIB will be passed as an Act of the Nigeria’s parliament. Trust Gbajabiamila, if he has to climb mountains and ascend hills, the speaker will embark on such a voyage to meet the set date. He is a man who is in a hurry to see Nigeria transform into Eldorado. The volcano ripple-effects of the PIB on the economy, host communities and the massive jobs that will erupt along multiple value chains of the unbundled sector will energize Gbaja to push through PIB by April. For those who might fear that thoroughness will be sacrificed on the altar of due diligence and clinical perusal should not fret. The speaker is finicky to a fault. His training as a lawyer designed him so. He displayed that when the controversial Water Bill debate raged at the floor of the Green Chamber. Powerful cabal who are unduly cashing out and making a kill from the unstructured industry cannot stop him. The collective interest of Nigeria and her people far outweighs the parochial and selfish interests of the powerful few. The speaker said, “For the most part, we all agree on the need for legislative action to make improvements through statutory and regulatory reform. Therefore, it is disappointing and frankly difficult to explain how successive governments have failed to deliver on the promise of reform despite this broad agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity and an obligation to do better, and we will. “We are not oblivious to the fact of many contending interests in this sector. These contentions do not need to result in conflict, especially when we know the objective of national prosperity benefits us all. Therefore, the process of engaging with stakeholders will continue beyond this public hearing to accommodate the diversity of interests and ensure all critical views form part of the deliberations that inform the final legislation. “Regardless of whatever other interests may exist, for this Ad-Hoc Committee and indeed the House of Representatives, Nigeria’s best interest is both our desired outcome and guiding principle. It falls to this Ad-Hoc Committee to engage in a necessary balancing act in the interests of our beloved nation.” The Speaker added that “This bill has been long coming as the chairman said. It has been upcoming in the last 20 years. Because of contending and vested interests, we have not been able to reach the desired outcome over the years. “A lot of work has gone into the preparation of this bill, but it’s not strait-jacketed. The idea of a public hearing is to have interests that may have not been accommodated prior to the introduction of the bill to lend their voices and to understand perhaps the bigger environment where they are coming from. “So my charge to everyone that will be participating is not to close our minds or our ears to the views and the positions that may be advanced by various interest groups. We are in a world, an economic world, so there must be interest groups, they will be interest groups and we cannot deny that. “But what should guide the outcome of what we do here as we accommodate more views will be what will be in the best interest of the people. “More importantly, we intend to pass this bill by April. That is a commitment we have made. Some may call it a tall order, but we will do it, and we will do it with every sense of responsibility without compromising the thoroughness of the work that will be done,” the speaker said.