Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Senate Minority Caucus and the former Minister of State for Education, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, have commiserated with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State over the death of his father, Sir Arthur Okowa. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Senate Caucus in a statement yesterday by the Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, expressed sadness over the death of Chief Arthur Okorie Uzoma Okowa, father of the Governor Okowa. According to the release, the caucus was saddened that the late Chief Okowa who until his death was the Okpara-Uku of Owa-Alero in Ika North East of Delta State, died at a perilous time in Nigeria, when his usual wise counsel is needed. Abaribe, however, urged Governor Okowa and his family to take solace in the fact that their father and the patriarch of Owa-Alero
Kingdom, lived a life of honour and integrity.
His legacy of honest service to his immediate community and in Delta State he said, is exemplified in Governor Okowa’s giant strides in the development of the state. “Therefore, we should rather celebrate his life than mourning his exit. He bowed out graciously bequeathing to Delta State and Nigeria a worthy legacy in his son, Governor Okowa,” Abaribe said. On his part, the former Minister of State for Education, Gbagi, has described the late Sir Arthur Okorie Okowa as a pillar of unity in the state, and a guiding example whose footprints are evident in the life and achievements of Governor Okowa. The Ex-Minister in a release yesterday stated that the deceased who until his death was the Okpara-Uku of Owa-Alero in Ika North East of Delta State, lived an eventful and fulfilled life worthy of celebration. Gbagi’s statement read in part: “I condole with my brother and friend, the Executive Governor of Delta State over the demise of his father, Sir Arthur Okorie Okowa. “Without a doubt, Papa lived a fulfilled life anchored on the principle of honesty and will be remembered particularly for his unifying role in ensuring peace in Delta State.” While commiserating with the people of Ika North East and Delta State, the former minister prayed for the repose of the soul of the deceased who died at the age of 88.