By Fadekemi Ajakaiye The Nigerian Institution of Structural Engineers will be launching an advocacy project on structural failures/collapses. This was stated by the institution’s President Engr. Dr, Kehinde Osifala at the Pre-Investiture press briefing held in Lagos, recently. Osifala stated that the Advocacy Project will be launched during his investiture as the 20th President of the Institution on the 14th of January 2021, at the College Hall of Yaba College of Technology, Lagos. “There is no doubt that if the project is well executed, it would definitely create the much desired awareness and once this is created the public would be on the alert and self-monitor sharp practices in the construction industry,” he said. He stated that the Advocacy Project is about the enlightenment of the people on structural/building collapse and it would be targeted to; members of the public (who build or engage others particularly artisans to build houses); construction industry professionals; engineering family members and other professionals; as well government arms and regulatory agencies. The mode of advocacy to be employed include; social media (videos), radio jingles, radio and television interviews and discussions. Others are; print media campaign, cartoons, adverts; Town hall meetings of stakeholders in the built environment and sponsored programmes on radio, TV etc., he said. The focus is preventing building collapse by looking at; causes of building collapse; prevention of building collapse; remedial actions necessary. Others are, signs to watch out for on distressed structures/buildings; who to talk to/consult with respect to distressed buildings; and, what the government is expected to do when there is a structural collapse, he said. He stated that the Institution was not under any government subvention, and therefore rely on collective self-effort (contribution from members), support from government, corporate bodies, and members of the public, as contribution towards their social responsibility programme. “The support of the governments especially the Lagos State government is highly solicited as Lagos leads and others follows,” he said. “If the spate of collapses is reduced in Lagos, it would automatically be reduced in other states of the federation as they would gladly follow Lagos example”, he said. “We therefore request that you all partner with us in this noble endeavour to save lives and valuable properties that are usually lost when there are collapses,” he said.