Emma Okonji The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) has come up with a detailed explanation on how the SIM replacement policy would work. They provided the details in a joint statement issued yesterday after lifting the suspension order on the replacement of Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) cards, by the federal government. The statement was jointly signed by NCC’s Director of Public Affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde and NIMC’s Head of Corporate Communications. Mr. Kayode Adegoke yesterday. In the joint statement, the agencies, which are members of the technical committee set up by the Ministerial Task Force on SIM-NIN integration, gave further insight into what is expected of all registered telecoms subscribers, when they begin the process of SIM replacement. The statement said the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ibrahim Pantami “has approved a SIM Replacement Policy for subscribers whose SIMs have been lost, stolen, misplaced or damaged subject to some conditions.” The statement listed the conditions to include: “That the subscriber presents a National Identification Number (NIN); that an effective verification of the NIN is carried out by NIMC; and that the relevant guidelines and regulations of NCC concerning SIM replacement are fully adhered to.” It, also, explained that the policy was part of the federal government’s efforts “to reduce the burden on subscribers and simplify the exercise, and that the policy will enable telecommunications service users who need to replace their damaged, stolen or misplaced SIMs to re-establish access to telecom services.” It, further, explained that the federal government’s drive “to ensure all subscriber registrations are linked with National Identification Numbers, was on course and that all stakeholders in the industry were working together to ensure the process is carried out as seamlessly as possible. “The government would like to seize this opportunity to sincerely appreciate Nigerians for the understanding and commitment demonstrated towards ensuring the overall success of this exercise,” the statement further said. The technical committee set up by the Ministerial Task Force under the chairmanship of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, include NCC, NIMC, the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) and Mobile Network Operators (MNOs). The technical committee is charged with the operationalisation of the process to ensure an expedited linkage of all SIM registration records with NIN.