By James Emejo The Managing Director/Chief Executive, Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, Thursday said the agency was not currently conducting any job recruitment exercise and warned Nigerians to be wary of scammers.
Reacting to a purported “2021 Recruitment Exercise” allegedly being undertaken by the authority to fill vacant positions, Adesugba further described the information as “criminal and a surreptitious maneuver to swindle unsuspecting job seekers and defraud them and their sponsors.”
He said the agency will take necessary steps to work with the security agencies to hunt and prosecute the scoundrels who were using the name of the authority to commit such heinous crimes to defraud Nigerians who are rightfully wishing to serve their fatherland.
He said NEPZA was an agency of government with respect to standards and due process as it works tirelessly to actualise the federal government’s vision of industralising the nation using free trade zone scheme.
He pointed out that the agency had not contemplated any recruitment exercise yet adding that it had not also overtly or covertly engaged any recruitment firm to conduct recruitment on its behalf.
Adesugba said:”This advertorial is, therefore, a calculated falsehood tailored along strategies usually deployed by Yahoo Yahoo guys or internet fraudsters to devour earnings of unsuspecting victims.
The management wishes to advise the general public to discountenance this criminal act and misinformation published by www.careersafrika.com and its affiliates as the action remains in bad taste for probity, transparency and due process that the authority strives to attain.”
In a statement by Head Corporate Communications, NEPZA, Mr. Martins Odeh, he added:”We are, therefore, resolute in carrying out our statutory mandate and this includes a possible legal action against managers of the aforementioned portal and its affiliates if the fake NEPZA recruitment advertorial is not brought down immediately.”