By Amby Uneze The Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria (AMLSN) has given a green light concerning the potency and effectiveness of the use of STK Biotech immune booster/ supplements for COVID-19 clinical trials considering its proven capacity to resuscitate the immune system that promotes longevity. Disclosing this during the Continuous Programme Development (CPD) lecture organised by the Imo State branch of AMLSN in conjunction with the association’s national headquarters, Abuja in Owerri, the state capital, the State Chairman, Dr. Dunga Kinsley maintained that the STK supplements are produced through adequate laboratory examination that corresponds with the people’s health issues. According to Dunga, “today as part of what we do, Continuous programme development (CPD) lecture organised by the branch in conjunction with the AMLSN Abuja, a body that regulates medical laboratory practice in Nigeria. “ I want to personally thank STK Biotech as our key partner. We are in partnership with them to see that health care of our people are attended to promptly through provision of quality supplements which STK produces in conformity with adequate laboratory examination of peoples’ health issues. “Without missing words, the products of STK are very good. In fact we want to encourage them. We have tested them and their supplements have been proved to be of efficacy. Their products detoxify human health and boost their phyto-immune system. “These are supplements that you can take to resuscitate your immune system, and it will promote one’s longevity. As long as you take it daily, it boosts your immunity and it scares COVID-19 from attacking you. “We enjoin people to take these supplements and enjoy their lives. Their research has proved that they are indeed experts in that direction and God will bless them for helping mankind to improve their longevity. We have really endorsed their products. It is good for immune booster”, he stated. In her lecture presentation on “TB Public Private Mix”, Justina Odoku outlined that the national tuberculosis and leprosy control programme was established in 1988 under the department of public health with a vision to free Nigeria of TB, leprosy and Buruli ulcer, and a long term goal to reduce significantly the burden, socio-economic impact and transmission of tuberculosis, leprosy and buruli ulcer in Nigeria in line with the sustainable development goals and stop TB partnership target, as well as provide appropriate rehabilitation for persons affected by leprosy. Odoku revealed that in 2017 an estimated 10 million people comprises of 90 percent of adults, 65 percents male, 9 percent people living with HIV developed TB worldwide, while about 25 percent of the total cases were in the African region. She also noted that in the same 2017, there were an estimated 1.3 million TB deaths among HIV negative people (down from 1.7 million in 2000) and an additional 300,000 deaths among HIV positive people. While in Nigeria which is among the countries in three high-burden areas has an estimated TB incidence rate of 219 per 100,000 in 2017 amounting to 418,000 TB cases during the year. In his message, the Imo State Commissioner for Environment and Petroleum, Dr. Iyke Njoku appealed to the members to engage in group practice as such would promote unity and lift the profession to greater heights, even as he praised laboratory scientists in the state for the workshop. Among the participants at the lecture which had as theme “Multi Resistance Drugs on Tuberculosis” include the World Health Organization (WHO) State Coordinator, Dr. Sabastine Okwu, Prof. Emenike from the Ambrose Ali University, Ekpoma, and former Registrar of the Institute, Prof. Anthony Emeribe who sent a goodwill message.