Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has charged members of the Lagos State Judiciary, to remain an example of equity, fairness and do their work with integrity at the highest level The governor, who promised that his administration would not be deterred or shy away from its responsibilities to make life more comfortable for judges in Lagos State, reassured members of the judiciary that his government would continue to accord them the necessary support required to discharge their duties diligently to the people of the State. Speaking during the swearing in of a 51-year-old Deputy Chief Registrar (Special Duties) Lagos Division, Mrs. Olubukola Florence Aigbokhaevbo and 40-year-old legal practitioner, Mr. Rahman Adesola Oshodi, as High Court Judges in Lagos State, Sanwo-Olu said the judges earned their nominations and appointments to the High Court of the state based on their sterling credentials and experience in their respective areas of engagement. He said: “We have enjoyed tremendous support from the judiciary led by the Chief Judge who constantly brings forward leadership that is second to none. And the least we can do is to continue to ensure that we give that arm of government all they require to continue to administer justice, to be the voice for the voiceless and to continue to let our citizens believe that Lagos State Judiciary is working well for all of them. “We will continue to ensure that we give our judicial arm of government all they require to continue to do what they know best, which is to serve our citizens. Our government realises and appreciates the services and sacrifices of our judges, even at these difficult times as they continue to respond to the needs of our citizens. Speaking earlier, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Lagos State, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), said swearing in of the two judges was one of the constitutionally recognised functions of Lagos State Governor to oil the wheels of the judiciary. He said the newly appointed justices were the two that top the selection process. In his remark, the Chief Judge of Lagos, Justice Kazeem Alogba said the occasion was another testimony of Governor Sanwo-Olu’s commitment to the judiciary and administration of justice in the state. He informed the governor that seven justices would retire this year and therefore stressed the need for their replacement.