Peter Uzoho The Sahara Group has earned $10 billion annual revenues in 25 years of its operations in more than 40 countries with over 4000 employees. The group, which is energy conglomerate, said that its business plans for the future would focus on continuous improvement, operational efficiency, sustainability and technological driven innovations. This was disclosed yesterday by the Executive Director of the Sahara Group, Mr. Temitope Shonubi, in a statement which said that the energy conglomerate’s impressive growth trajectory since 1996 has been driven by knowledge, business integrity, humility, diverse people and robust global network. Shonubi said that the group planned to mark its 25th anniversary with events that would stretch all through the year with the theme: “Harnessing Safe Energy Today,” with emphasis on promoting the capacity to achieve positive and sustainable transformation in the energy sector. He said: “The Sahara’s focus is on continuous improvement, operational efficiency and sustainability. “An analysis of Sahara’s operational model shows that creating a sustainable economic, social and governance impact has remained central to Sahara’s corporate strategy. “Sahara’s focus is on continuous improvement, operational efficiency, and sustainability.” The executive director explained that knowledge has been the empowering tool for Sahara Group in the past 25 years while business integrity has remained its greatest asset and “humility our utmost ethos, diverse people and network our greatest value.” Shonubi, who also unveiled the Sahara’s 25th anniversary logo and plan for the future, added that the group has disrupted previously held notions that Africa could not be a source of global energy solutions. Sahara, according to him, has deployed transformational energy initiatives to become a conglomerate with a proud African heritage and vast operations in the continent, Asia, Europe and the Middle East Asia. “Today, the narrative is rapidly changing with Sahara at the vanguard of the transformational story from Africa to the world. “Founded in 1996 with an initial focus on oil trading, the Sahara Group is widely regarded as a leading energy conglomerate renowned for championing capacity building and promoting the ‘best in Africa for Africa’ to the world narrative globally,” he said. He added that Sahara would increase its investment in technology, artificial intelligence and human capital transformation to drive its next expansion phase as innovation would define Sahara’s brand positioning and offering in the coming years. Shonubi said: “For us at Sahara, it has been 25 years of instituting a stamp of distinction. Like most start-ups, we were chasers than followers and today are the dream actualised corporation. “It is much more expensive and difficult to be a trailblazer, defying the impossible to emerge as an enterprise that creates value innovatively, responsibly and sustainably. “Still, at Sahara, we are focused on remarkable growth and grateful for the opportunity to serve and bring energy to life across global markets. “We plan to deploy best-in-class Terminal Automation System (TAS) for efficient terminal operations in the oil and gas sector; Plant Data Visualisation System (PDVS) for enhanced remote monitoring of plant operations and Customer Energy Management (CEM), and GIS-based Network Monitoring System (GNMS) for customer-centric power distribution and data management services.” Shonubi, however, stated that Sahara Group would remain passionate about green energy and environmental conservation in line with its commitment to support the growing global demand for safe and clean energy and the shift towards a lower carbon footprint. He also disclosed that the Sahara and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) entered into a partnership in 2019 to promote access to clean and affordable energy in Africa with a target of providing clean and affordable energy to more than 650 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa. “Our Green Life project, aimed at driving energy and ecological conservation initiatives across our business operations and partnerships, saw the group pioneer the commencement of an electronic billing system (e-billing) at Ikeja Electric Plc, the group’s power distribution arm to promote environmental conservation in the energy sector,” Shonubi said.