A former Director, Marine Environment Management Department at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Felicia Mogo, will today launch an industry book as she celebrates her exit from public service. The book titled: “Regulating the Marine Environment of Africa for Sustainable Blue Economy – the Nigeria Scenario,” will be presented by Minister of State for Environment, Hon. Sharon Ikeazor in Lagos. During her 34 years of public service, Mogo served in various capacities in agencies, ministries and various international avenues contributing to the protection of Nigeria’s environment and giving the country recognition on the international level. The ex-NIMASA Director said the book is a product of her wealth of experience over the years in Nigeria’s marine environment.
“I have had the opportunity to incubate insights about stewarding our resources for sustainable development. Specifically, I have spent considerable time reflecting on Nigeria’s marine environment which holds enormous potential for our sustainable growth as a nation, and yet remains understated. “For over 10 years, I have toyed with the idea of documenting my ideas on how to optimise Nigeria’s marine environment for the benefit of its entire population. I am glad to have finally made this idea a reality via this book,” she added. Commenting on the book, the President, Strategic Operations and Sediment Management Tipping Point Resources Group, United States, Prof. Eric Stern said: “I must commend the author for how the book succinctly evaluates and proffers practical solutions on innovatively deploying institutional and regulatory approaches in Nigeria’s marine environment and actualising a pan-African blue economy pathway.” He advised and urged government, policymakers, legislators, academics, private sector participants, development practitioners and partners, civil society and the media to avail themselves the wealth of knowledge the book offers. Mogo is a seasoned technocrat with over three decades experience in the Nigerian public sector, having started as one of the pioneer staff of the then Federal Environmental Protection Agency ( FEPA) that metamorphosed into Federal Ministry Environment, from Federal Ministry of Environment she was invited to Bureau for Public service Reforms(BPSR) then under the Presidency as one of the reform champions to kick start the Bureau after undergoing trainings. After two years she returned to the Federal Ministry of Environment until her service was requested for by NIMASA.