Profile Security Service (PSS) has bagged the best private security outfit in Nigeria at the annual Security and Emergency Management Awards (SAEMA) 2020 which held in Abuja. As an indigenous security service, Profile Security with headquarters in Abuja provides risk management, preventive and protective security services in Nigeria. The services of PSS cover Guards’ services, Coverage of special occasions, Installation and maintenance of security systems, Central alarm monitoring services (P-CAMS), Mobile patrol services and Security consultancy services. It also operates 24 hours patrol system with radio network and also responds to an emergency situation at any location. PSS is also into Installation and Maintenance of Security Systems by designing, installing and maintaining electronic security systems. Its highly trained and skilled professionals render consultancy services on the acquisition of latest state-of-the-art security gadgets. Some of the gadgets include: CTV Cameras and Monitors (covert and overt); Vehicle Tracking Systems; Bomb Detectors/Metal Detectors’ Ballistic Protected cars, Anti – Bugging Devices, Air – Teasers and Armored Automatic (metal) Gates. Meanwhile, apart from the training of its personnel, PSS Training Academy in Minna, provides capacity building on security related programmes especially on patrolling, access/theft control, use of force/arrest procedures, physical fitness, collection of evidence/protection of crime scene, locks and keys, executive protection and basic investigation/intelligence techniques. Drawing from its vast reservoir of retired personnel from various security services, the Undercover Special Intervention Force (SIF) provide discreet security services of a Pro-active security nature. Its threat identification, threat neutralisation and Trouble-shooting skills are invaluable. While its Response Teams work with the Police in promptly response to distress calls, its Certified Protection Professionals (CPP) are much sought after for Bodyguard (BG) duties for VIP’s and vulnerable top executives. In facts its Profile Central Alarm Monitoring Service (P-CAMS) is a sophisticated, computerized alarm network designed to link residences, offices, banks, warehouses, project sites etc, by wireless radio, to our central receiving and monitoring station installed at our headquarters. The system lets the subscriber promptly report armed attack/robbery not through the telephone but through the wireless network 24 hours a day, seven days a week for swift response, just at the press of a button.