Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, is seeking approvals from relevant agencies of the federal government to construct an iconic roundabout and tower, at the popular Opi Junction, about 14 kilometres from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). Ugwuanyi who inspected the site yesterday disclosed that the major purpose of the inspection tour was to obtain approval from two federal agencies for the commencement of the all-important project. The governor was accompanied by his Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr. Greg Nnaji; the Controller of Works, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Mr. Femi Oyekanmi; and the Airspace, Manager, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, Mr. Iliya Yohana. Ugwuanyi explained that the roundabout and tower will be a deserving identity of Nsukka, stressing that the second largest city in Enugu State, which was hitherto neglected, truly deserves major facelifts in terms of infrastructural development. “We called NAMA to approve this project because of the height of the tower, to ensure that it won’t be an obstruction to flights,” he explained. Ugwuanyi also thanked the stakeholders of Nsukka zone, especially the owners of the land where the roundabout and tower will be sited, the Federal Controller of Works, Ministry of Works and Housing, Odinma Nsukka, the youth, among others, for granting approval for the commencement of the project. Reiterating his resolve to serve Enugu State with the fear of God, Ugwuanyi pledged to continue to deliver on his promises to the people of the state in spite of various challenges confronting the nation. Earlier in his speech, the State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Nnaji, revealed that the project is contained in 2021 budget. On his part, the Controller of Works, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Engr. Oyekanmi, who endorsed the construction of the roundabout and tower, commended Gov. Ugwuanyi for seeking the assessment and approval of the Ministry and NAMA before the commencement of the project, stressing that such approach “is novel”. Also speaking, the NAMA Airspace Manager, Yohana, equally applauded Gov. Ugwuanyi for seeking the agency’s approval, stating that “we will look at the technical drawings and give the necessary advice”.