By Charles Ajunwa The Director General of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Mr. Segun Runsewe, has commended the Kaduna State Government for ordering the demolition of a house slated as venue for a sex party in the state. The house located in Sabon Tasha, on the outskirts of Kaduna metropolis, was demolished by the state Urban Planning Development Agency (KADUSPA) on the orders of Governor Nasir el-Rufai who was miffed at the public show of disrespect for Nigerian culture and total disregard to public good. In a statement to THISDAY, Runsewe whose agency last year had a running battle with cross dresser influencers and social deviants, said Governor el-Rufai deserves kudos for his prompt response to the disgusting sex party in the state by demolishing the building as a warning to others in the wings. “But for this intervention by the governor, Kaduna State possibly would become the new capital and destination for sex tourism in Nigeria, leading to social disconnect and dislocations with drug peddling in tow and our children destroyed in the process,” he explained. “In 1992, Senegal and Uganda, experienced massive influx of sex tourists and immediately took hard measures to curb it because if left unchecked, sex tourism will damage the spiritual, moral and cultural values of any society and there’s no sentiments about dealing with it as Governor el-Rufai has done,” Runsewe explained. According to him, there is the need for Nigerian leaders and parents to monitor closely what their children are up to and quickly nip untoward attitudes and activities in the bud. “Certainly, Governor el-Rufai has vindicated our position on the need to stop and arrest the unfortunate presence and foreign behavioural influence threatening our culture and tradition. I’m sure with the pulling down of the house for the sex party, sufficient signals have been sent to other deviants, their sponsors and publics. The law of this country must be applied to the fullest to stop this rage from the pit of darkness.” Runsewe further called on other governors to support the full restoration and enthronement of Nigerian cultural values and ecosystem in order to rid the nation of strange characters and lifestyles. “This is how Boko Haram and Yahoo Yahoo started and before we know it, our society, the young persons left to drink from the polluted waters of social vices which has left us struggling on all fronts, so let those who are angry at the response of governor el-Rufai go check out various campaigns mounted against sex tourism by United Nations World Tourism Organisation ( UNWTO); and the Universal Federation of Travel Agencies (UFTA). Runsewe who also doubles as President Africa Region World Craft Council (WCC), disclosed that NCAC will be reviewing and reviving the campaign to promote the true Nigerian cultural values, targeting the youths and the older generation, in order to rid Nigeria of devil’s plan to destroy the young persons and their future well-being. “Our culture no doubt is under threat from all sides but with what Governor Nasir el-Rufai has done in Kaduna, am convinced that we shall battle the demons of immoral living and enemies of our culture and tradition to a standstill,” he stated