By Ibrahim Shuaibu Manufacturer of home products, Aspira Nigeria Limited in Kano, unveiled a new product, Viva Plus Laundry Sanitiser Detergent Powder to the members of the public in Kano
In his welcome address at the event, Head of Marketing, Aspira Nigeria Limited, Mr. Santhosh Kumar Nair, disclosed that the latest product had undergone all the necessary checks and was carefully manufactured to bring about a more hygienic and healthier society. He further said the product was a result of the endless desire of the company to serve the society in better ways, adding that, “Our commitment to the society and to health care has expanded our product range to sanitisers, dish- washers and dental health care products.” Nair, recalled that Aspira Nigeria Limited has an unblemished reputation as the flagship of a number of market leading brands such as Viva, Sabil, Chic, Family Care Baby and Me, while assuring that the new product would offer a fulfilling product- experience to customers. The Chairman, Aspira Nigeria Limited, Alhaji Ahmadu Haran Danzago, in his remarks, stated that the product could not have entered the market at a more auspicious time, given the present global push for improved personal care and hygiene, including the need for a cleaner and safer environment. He appreciated the people of Nigeria, the company’s customers in particular, for their unshaken patronage and loyalty to their various range of products, while promising them a happy and prosperous relationship in the years to come. Also, the Brand Ambassador, Aspira Nigeria Limited, Alhaji Sani Musa Danja, stated that the product- launch was in line with the tradition of the company to break new grounds and deliver high- quality products to their customers. He said the new product, “has been tested and proven to be of world class standards”.
The Product Manager, Aspira Nigeria Limited, Mr. Ali Jammal recalled that in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country, the company decided to develop a detergent that could reduce the risk of spreading ill- causing bacteria, in addition to keeping clothes stain- free. He indicated that, “The new Laundry Sanitiser was developed under multi-enzyme and eco- friendly technologies and contains zero percent bleach. It is gentle on fabrics and works even in cold water.” According to Mr. Jammal, Viva Plus Laundry Sanitizer Detergent Powder contains an advanced formula that removes tough stains and leaves a long-lasting fragrance while stating that, “It is specially designed to keep your clothes bright and vivid, wash after wash.” He explained that the new product is available in four different variants. Speaking at the occasion of the launch, the Personnel Manager of the company, Alhaji Bala Adamu said: “Aspira was established in 2009, since then we have expanded to 12 manufacturing facilities as of today. As I speak, we have created over 3000 jobs, and with our upcoming facilities, we hope to create more job opportunities with a vision of youth empowerment and to reduce unemployment rate.”