Duro Ikhazuagbe with agency report Manchester City extended their winning run to 20 matches and moved 13 points clear at the top of the Premier League as John Stones’ second-half strike was enough to secure victory over a resilient West Ham United. Stones fired home his fourth goal of the season from Riyad Mahrez’s neat lay-off to keep Pep Guardiola’s side in control of the title race. Fourth-placed West Ham gave City a decent game at Etihad Stadium and fought back to level through Michail Antonio before the break, after Stones’ central-defensive partner Ruben Dias. After about 20 minutes, City midfielder Kevin de Bruyne lined up a free-kick, about 40 yards out, to the right of the West Ham box. The execution was terrible – the ball barely got off the ground and ran straight into the wall, allowing the visitors to clear. It was a notable moment because it was so unusual.Manchester City extended their winning run to 20 matches and moved 13 points clear at the top of the Premier League as John Stones’ second-half strike was enough to secure victory over a resilient West Ham United. Stones fired home his fourth goal of the season from Riyad Mahrez’s neat lay-off to keep Pep Guardiola’s side in control of the title race. Fourth-placed West Ham gave City a decent game at Etihad Stadium and fought back to level through Michail Antonio before the break, after Stones’ central-defensive partner Ruben Dias had put the hosts in front. But Guardiola, likened to celebrity chef Heston Blumenthalby Hammers counterpart David Moyes before Saturday’s fixture, once again came up with the right ingredients as his side improved following the second-half introductions of Gabriel Jesus and Phil Foden. City’s unbeaten record now stretches to 27 games and they will equal their longest run without defeat if they do not lose against Wolves on Tuesday. After about 20 minutes, City midfielder Kevin de Bruyne lined up a free-kick, about 40 yards out, to the right of the West Ham box. The execution was terrible – the ball barely got off the ground and ran straight into the wall, allowing the visitors to clear. It was a notable moment because it was so unusual. What De Bruyne did with another crossing opportunity from a similar position not long afterwards was more in keeping with the Belgian’s normal standards. Delivered with his left foot, the ball curled towards goal, too far out for stand-in West Ham keeper Darren Randolph to come for, and begged Dias to head it home.