Kayode Fasua Worried by the recent destruction of lives and property as a result of the herders’ crisis in the Yewa axis of the state, Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has commenced the process of finding lasting solutions to the menace. To this end, a government delegation comprising top government officials and representatives of security agencies was sent by the governor to the affected areas on what government themed, “confidence building mission”. Speaking at the palace of the Olu of Ilaro, the state Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Hon. Afolabi Afuape, noted that though the farmers and herders’ clashes was a national problem, the state government was looking at ways of finding a lasting solution to it as government was not happy with recent happenings in some parts of the state. “Government is not happy with what is going on in this part of the State. We have come on the instruction of the state governor to see what can be done to address this crisis because the state government is not happy with what is happening. “I must stress the need for peaceful co-existence among all our people irrespective of where you come from. Though this crisis is a national issue, government is putting security plans in place to secure the lives of our people in this area”, he assured. Afuape stressed the need for the people to be vigilant by reporting strange faces and movements to the security officials, as government could not afford crisis in any part of the State. Also speaking, Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Alhaji Abdulwaheed Odusile, appealed to the people not to take law into their hands, but to allow the security agencies and the traditional rulers to handle the situation. While calling for peaceful co-existence among the indigenes and people from other ethnic groups, Odusile disclosed that an all-inclusive stakeholders’ meeting has been scheduled to hold soon to find solutions to the problems. The Olu of Ilaro and Paramount ruler of Yewaland, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, acknowledged similar challenges in other parts of the country but added that it was becoming pronounced in the state in recent time. The Oba called for immediate setting up of the Amotekun Corps in the state and the involvement of traditional rulers in selecting its operatives who know their different terrains. “The State Governor has done well by putting in place mechanism to address this problem. I want to plead with the governor to commission the Amotekun Corps. When doing this, all critical stakeholders, including the traditional rulers should be involved in recommending people who know the terrains. Round pegs should be put in round holes”, he advised.