The intensive and highly structured Closed Camping activities put in place by the Lagos State Sports Commission for Team Lagos Athletes in readiness for the just postponed 20th National Sports Festival tagged “EDO 2020” has been put to an end. It would be recalled that the Lagos State Sports Commission Management commenced closed camping activities for Team Lagos Athletes to represent the Centre of Excellence at the Anglican House Bariga, one of the best hostels in Lagos, on February 6 to 10. However, due to the announcement of the postponement of the National Sports Festival by the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development till April 8 – 22, the Lagos State Sports Commission closed the activities at the Closed Camp after training rigorously in the camp for five days. While in camp, Team Lagos Athletes and coaches disclosed that they were in high spirits in preparation for the National Sports Festival in Edo State and were always very proud to represent Lagos State. Lagos Handball male player, Yayah Owolabi stated that he was very happy to represent Lagos State, adding that, as a professional sportsman, someone must be ready to take up the task anytime being called upon. “My main target at the National Sports Festival is definitely, nothing but Gold medals.”
The Head Coach, Badminton, Maria Omoneyin, stated that Training had always been the priority of the coaching crew and the players despite the postponements of the Sports Festival. Speaking during visitation to the camp, the Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission, Sola Aiyepeku, expressed optimism that Team Lagos would win 100 gold medals at the Games. “We know some of our advantages and we have enough athletes full of experience to take up the task,” said Aiyepeku Also speaking, the Senior Special Assistant to Governor on Sports, Anthony Adeboye, disclosed that Lagos is always prepared anytime and the athletes are responding excellently well. He added that Lagos State parades seasoned sports administrators at the helm of affairs who engage young talented athletes and believe in the young generation.