The South-West Caucus of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has affirmed its support for the return of the Dr. Eddy Olafeso led Zonal Executive Committee of the party and called on delegates from the zone to elect them. A communique signed by the Zonal Secretary, Hon. Daisi Akintan, and the Chairmen of Lagos, Osun, Ogun and Ekiti States, Mr. Adedeji Doherty, Hon. Sunday Bisi, Dr. Sikirulai Ogundele and Mr. Bisi Kolawole respectively, at the end of a meeting in Lagos yesterday called on the Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde to desist from causing division in the party by creating parallel executive committees in some states. The communique read: “We, the members of the Zonal Caucus of the party in the South West, pursuant to Section 27(5) as amended in 2017, here gathered and deliberated on the fortunes of the party and particularly with emphasis to place it on sound footing in our zone and resolves as follows- “That we stand firmly by the resolutions of the Ibadan meeting of March 12, 2020, affirming the return of Dr. Eddy Olafeso as the Zonal Chairman, Rev. Bunmi Jenyo as Zonal Secretary, among others, believing that as matured and sincere party members, resolutions and agreements are sacrosanct and must always be respected. “That sequel to the above, we are committed to respecting the zoning agreement, as conclusively agreed to at the meeting and furthermore endorsing the candidature of Dr. Eddy Olafeso and all other members of his executive or new additions injected into the list by leaders of the respective states. “That we hereby direct/appeal to our delegates to vote accordingly for all our aspirants as we are confident in their ability to steer the ship of the party successfully. “That we call on the Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde to stop acting like Governor-General of the South-West Zone and desist from causing division in the party by setting up parallel state executive committees in some states. “That our vision and desire is to see the PDP thrive in the South West Zone and win elections. “That sequel to the above, the under listed people have been approved as candidates for election at the zonal congress. “Dr. Eddy Olafeso, National Vice Chairman; Rev. Bunmi Jenyo, Zonal Secretary; Hon. Bakene Fasiu Adewale, Zonal Organising Secretary; Mr. Femi Adetola, Youth Leader; Mrs. Abimbola Lanre Balogun, Woman Leader; Mr. Oke Ojo Micheal, Treasurer; Mr. Balogun Kolawole Ayuba, Auditor; Mr. Dosu Babatunde, Legal Adviser; Mr. Ayo Fadaka; Zonal Publicity Secretary and Hon. Philip Olabode Aivoji, Financial Secretary. “Zonal Ex-officio are Mrs. Agnes Shobajo (Lagos); Fagbayigbo Adeola (Ondo); Mr.Adesina Adeboye Semiu (Ogun); Mrs. Taiwo Abiola Mubo (Oyo) and Mr. Akinade Jimoh (Osun). “National Ex-officio members are Mr. Michael Okunlade (Oyo); Arowolo Oluwole Johnson (Ondo); Captain Tunji Shelle (Rtd) (Lagos); Hon Abayomi Nureni Tella (Ogun); Mr. Alabi George Ibitayo (Osun) and Mrs. Monisola Omotosho (Ekiti).”