By Funmi Ogundare Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LSUBEB) in collaboration with the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), recently partnered with Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) in the deployment of state- of -the art equipment, capacity building for teachers, provision of technical expertise and online portal in the UBEC Model School, as part of efforts aimed at improving quality teaching and learning in basic education. The UBEC Model School project which is currently undergoing construction at Iworo-Ajido, Badagry, Lagos State, is a prototype model school initiated by UBEC under the FGN/UBEC direct intervention. Speaking at a meeting held, recently in Lagos, the Executive Chairman, Wahab Alawiye-King, thanked the KOICA group for their partnership and the willingness to provide state-of the art ICT facilities upon project completion. He explained that Iworo -Ajido community in Badagry, was chosen for the project due to its vast expanse of land, good terrain and serene environment. “Mr. Governor is massively contributing to the digital transformation of the education sector, in line with the THEMES agenda of his administration, particularly with the EKOEXCEL initiative,” Alawiye-King said He said the board is ready to partner with the agency as it has considered three factors; commitment of its partner, integrity and capacity to handle the project . “For us in Lagos, community engagement, partnership, cross sector relationship is very important to us. Education for us is an ecosystem, where you need relationship with both local and international organisation to thrive.” Mr. Woochan Chang, Country Director of KOICA Nigeria, said the agency is committed to satisfying the developmental needs of the Nigerian government. He said Lagos State was chosen as one of the states in Nigeria to replicate the Nigeria/Korea Model School that was established by UBEC in Abuja, due to its capacity and commitment, adding that the agency wants to disseminate digital education in the country. The State Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo later received the UBEC/KOICA delegation on behalf of the Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and pledged the support and readiness of the state to take ownership of the project upon completion.
Mrs. Abosede Adelaja, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education thanked KOICA Group for the huge collaboration and support for education.