Sunday Osanyintuyi argues that the Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State will be better served with Kayode Adaramodu as its governorship flagbearer The crisis and leadership tussle rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is not limited to the party or to the South-west geopolitical zone. Even within each zone and at state levels, the battle for the soul of party structure has always been fierce and the South-western axis of the party is not left out. Ekiti state is one strong bone of contention as party stalwarts square off. The contention here is: who gets the party ticket for the upcoming 2022 governorship election in the state? The in-fighting between ex-governors Ayodele Fayose, Segun Oni and party loyalists to Senator Biodun Olujimi threatens the very fabric on which the foundation of the party was laid in that state. In a recent interview, Mr. Kayode Adaramodu has dubbed this as merely a “friendly tango” and a competition of ideas among people of like minds with the belief that all issues will soon be resolved. Kayode Adaramodu has remained a unifying factor in Ekiti PDP. Major stakeholders of the party see him as a bridge builder, who can unify all interest groups together. The dynamic young man with fresh ideas who many Ekiti indigenes across party lines have seen as being capable of charting a new way forward, has shown interest in the highly sought-after office of the governor. He strongly believes his party holds a better chance at wrestling power from the All Progressives Congress come 2022. Mr Kayode Adaramodu, popularly known as Odundun, is a former General Manager of GT Bank and a UK-based Policy and Economic Consultant. He overcame monstrous odds and rose from humble beginnings to build a reputable career that has seen him transverse from Nigeria to many African countries, Europe and other parts of the world. After a fulfilling career in the banking industry in Nigeria, he moved to the United Kingdom where he worked as a Business Analyst and Policy consultant for the DFID. He then went further working as an Economic Adviser at the UK Office for National Statistics where he provided relevant analyses needed to monitor and manage the UK economy by the Bank of England and Her Majesty’s Treasury policymakers. According to many, he is seen as a man of compassion, selflessness coupled with the drive and desire to serve and improve the lot of the average Ekiti youth. He has now returned home to answer the call of service for his people. Over the years, he has remained faithful, loyal and resilient to the PDP, shunning many high-level entreaties from other political parties. He has built a reputable personal brand based on character, passion and integrity. “We need to ensure that infrastructural services are efficient and reliable… we need to prioritise policies and programmes that will help in creating and integrating more stakeholders into the economy” Adaramodu said, when asked of his intentions for the state as regards infrastructure development which are critically lacking or inadequate in Ekiti right now. He further stated that the private sector in the State needs rejigging in the areas of investment climate improvement, laying emphasis on the need to stimulate the MSMEs in the State for poverty alleviation. His supporters who seem to be growing each day, believe he is a special breed of a man and politician. According to a young party loyalist, “Kayode Adaramodu is not your regular run-of-the-mill politician and he has the will and action to back up his words,” he said excitedly. For Adaramodu, the decision to take part in the 2022 political process is borne out of his conviction that public service is about helping people to solve problems and live their dreams. He desires to bring positive change to the lives of the common people of Ekiti. Is Kayode Adaramodu the way forward for the Ekiti people? Does he possess what Ekiti State truly needs for development judging from his mix of private and public sector experiences? On record, Kayode Adaramodu(Odundun) has laid a solid foundation for a better tomorrow with wealth of experience. His impact in Ekiti as a private person, particularly in the area of youth development, remains a pointer to his ability to truly chart a new course for Ekiti. It will be the best decision for Ekiti State PDP to put this humble achiever forward for a well-deserved victory in the 2022 governorship election. QUOTE Kayode Adaramodu, popularly known as Odundun, is a former General Manager of GT Bank and a UK-based Policy and Economic Consultant. He overcame monstrous odds and rose from humble beginnings to build a reputable career that has seen him transverse from Nigeria to many African countries, Europe and other parts of the world. After a fulfilling career in the banking industry in Nigeria, he moved to the United Kingdom where he worked as a Business Analyst and Policy consultant for the DFID. He then went further working as an Economic Adviser at the UK Office for National Statistics where he provided relevant analyses needed to monitor and manage the UK economy by the Bank of England and Her Majesty’s Treasury policymakers. According to many, he is seen as a man of compassion, selflessness coupled with the drive and desire to serve and improve the lot of the average Ekiti youth. He has now returned home to answer the call of service for his people. Over the years, he has remained faithful, loyal and resilient to the PDP, shunning many high-level entreaties from other political parties. He has built a reputable personal brand based on character, passion and integrity