By Hammed Shittu A former National Chairman of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, yesterday described the visit of some serving All Progressives Congress (APC) governors to former President Goodluck Jonathan to allegedly woo him to contest the 2023 presidential elections under APC platform as huge joke. Baraje added that Jonathan would never be taken in by the political antics of the governors who visited him under the guise of felicitating with him during his last birthday anniversary. The former APC-turned PDP stalwart added that the governors’ visit is not a threat to the PDP as a political party. Baraje spoke with journalists in Ilorin, Kwara state capital as part of activities to mark his 70th birthday. He said: “The Jonathan I know will not be hoodwinked by the APC governors overtures. Dr Jonathan will continue to talk and laugh with them, If they are not careful some of them that went on that visit might end up declaring for PDP. The issue of wining Jonathan to their side is not a threat to PDP because we know and trust Jonathan. We know who he is. We know that he realizes that PDP had done more than enough in his life and he is always saying it. So we are very confident of the former president.” On the crisis rocking his party PDP nationwide, the politician sounded optimistic that the party would come of the crisis stronger and spring surprises in the 2023 polls. “There is very big hope for the PDP in 2023. PDP has a kind of internal control mechanism to resolve crisis not like any other party,” he waxed upbeat. Baraje said that “like any political party anywhere in the world you must have differences. It is only abnormal when it is becoming a tradition. Mark you it is not only in PDP. It is worse in other parties. And I make bold to say that it is worst in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). I make bold to say that by the time the crisis in APC snowballs and bursts, there would not be APC again. “The PDP has already started kicking the ball rolling. We have set up a committee headed by former Senate President Bukola Saraki. His reconciliation committee is to bring back cooperation, integration and rehabilitation of the party. It was officially launched in Abuja. “PDP works in a wonderful way. What looks impossible today will become a reality when the 2023 election year gets closer. In fact, 11th hour to 2023 is when you will know the capacity of the PDP. Even with my short stint with APC before I quickly ran back to PDP I still met that tradition there. “Today, we have been talking to one another. I am happy that committee of former chairmen, committee of former national secretaries, committee of former speakers and committee of former Senate presidents are all meeting. Committee of former governors is also meeting at various levels. “By the middle of this year you will begin to see the magic that PDP will do. Efforts are on and we believe it is going to be very fruitful.”