Chinedu Eze The Board of Directors of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO) has suspended the Group Managing Director, Mrs. Olatokunbo Fagbemi over alleged illicit contract deals. In a swift response, however, the spokesman of the company, Mr. Sesan Akinrinmade, disputed reports about Fagbemi’s suspension claiming that the group managing director “is on leave and can stay as long as she wants.” Multiple sources disclosed to THISDAY at the weekend that the board of the company placed Fagbemi under indefinite suspension after its meeting in January. One of THISDAY sources explained that the board under the chairmanship of Dr. Seinde Oladapo suspended Fagbemi for alleged failure to execute a handling equipment contract awarded in 2019 with full payment of over N400 million. Almost two years after the contract was awarded, according to the source, only equipment worth about N200 million was delivered. Another source told THISDAY that the board had given Fagbemi two conditions – either to return the remaining money released for the equipment or supply the remaining equipment – to avoid being suspended. However, according to the source, the group managing director, could not meet any of the two conditions. Consequently, the company secretary directed her in a letter on February 13 to proceed on indefinite suspension. The source claimed that if Fagbemi eventually fulfilled any of the two conditions, the board would have to meet to decide whether to reinstate her or not after reviewing the actions she had taken while in office. Further findings revealed that Fagbemi, whose two-year tenure would be completed in December 2021, was the one who sourced the contractor, carried out due diligence on the contractor and awarded the contract to him to acquire the said equipment. During the board meeting, THISDAY learnt that the contractor should be made available at the meeting, but the GMD failed to produce him, thereby casting doubt on the transparency of the transaction. THISDAY, also, gathered that Fagbemi failed to recover the balance of the fund already released for the acquisition of the equipment. THISDAY learnt that NAHCO, like other aviation companies, was hit by the negative impact of COVID-19. In 2020, the company made profit after tax of N171 million contrary to N717 million it made in 2019. The staff of the firm, who spoke with THISDAY anonymously, however, commended Fagbemi for her efficient leadership during the COVID-19 lockdown and subsequent actions taken to reinvigorate the company when businesses started handling companies at the airport. They claimed that Fagbemi saved the company huge resources by streamlining the workforce, repositioning the personnel and through task redistribution. She stopped the outsourcing in the company, which also saved the company money and rechanneled NAHCO’s corporate social responsibility to become people oriented. Akinrinmade, however, disputed the report about Fagbemi’s suspension, noting that there was no document to confirm that she was suspended. “As far as I know, according to the company’s spokesman, the group managing director is on leave and not suspended”, She added.