Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has applauded the Ikere community for donating the sum of N60 million as grant to the newly established Bamidele Olumilua University of Education, Science and Technology, Ikere-Ekiti (BOUESTI) for smooth takeoff of the institution. The College of Education in the town, which was established in 1978, was last October upgraded to a university with the community promising to contribute the sum of N500 million as part of the collaborative efforts to ensure smooth running of the university. Fayemi, who was represented by the state Commissioner for Education, Dr. Olabimpe Aderiye, stated this at the weekend when the Ikere Ekiti community presented a cheque of N60 million to the newly established BOUESTI located in the town. The governor reiterated the commitment of his administration to sound and qualitative education through proper funding, saying his government will strive hard to ensure that every interested Ekiti citizen has access to good education up to the university cadre. Fayemi said: “For sustainable development, no amount can be too much to expend on sound education. Schools with more funds clearly have greater ability to provide higher quality, broader and deeper educational opportunities to the students they serve. “We understand that without proper funding, efficiency and innovations are easily compromised. This is why this event is significant. All well-meaning individuals and corporate bodies must join hands to fund education. “I commend the donors for sharing our vision and passion to make the university a world class which we can all be proud of. “The development of a nation or state depends on quality education of its citizenry. Education is the foundation of a country which brings wealth, social prosperity and economic stability.” However, while presenting the cheque, the Ogoga of Ikere, Oba Adejimi Adu, appealed to Fayemi to tackle those he described as ‘local bandits’ operating under the cover of cultism, robbery and herdsmen, who are terrorising the community. Oba Adu said the call became imperative due to the establishment of a new university that would bring an upsurge of people of different characters into the town, saying: “I don’t want the lives of the students and my people to be endangered. “I have heard complaints from the management about cultism and some herders who were attacking the institution. This shouldn’t be tolerated. The government must deal with these people for us to have peace. “Also, I commend all my subjects, especially Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), the chancellor of the institution for always standing by us at all times and for being the pillars of our success stories.” The Chairman, Funding Support to BOUESTI, AIG Tunde Ogunsakin (rtd), who was represented by Pastor Tope Orolu, said the fund was a partial fulfillment of the pledge of financial support to the governing council of the institution. Ogunsakin urged the university management to run the institution like a truly 21st century institution through “radical curriculum reform, research-oriented education, technology transfer, intellectual exchange programmes and edu-tourism initiative in the institution.”