Where does he get his confidence from? Knowing the heart of man and the fickleness of people’s loyalty, where exactly does Senator Andy Uba get this earth-shaking confidence from? These are the questions on the lips of observers after the good Senator reportedly bragged that the All Progressives Congress (APC) ‘s gubernatorial party ticket will alight on no one else but him. To be sure, Senator Emmanuel Nnamdi Uba (Andy Uba for short), is a man with a charismatic and magnetic personality—a people’s person. His political profile is both historic and indicative of a progressive and somewhat liberal mind. But are these enough to justify the oomph with which he evidently expects to run through his fellow APC governorship aspirants? While speaking to some of his supporters in Awka, Anambra State, on February 9, 2021, Senator Uba boasted that the APC gubernatorial party ticket is his for the taking. He said that his momentum, if granted the ticket, would outstrip that of 2007 “in the 326 wards and 21 Local Government Areas of [Anambra] State…a record [that] has not been equalled by any governorship candidate in the State to date.” Uba also reminded his supporters that his opponents in 2007 were only satisfied with briefly visiting Awka, Onitsha, Nnewi and a few other towns in Anambra. In contrast, he took the time to campaign in “dusty villages and hamlets,” taking his “message of paradigm shift.” Apparently, Uba’s time as presidential aide to former President Olusegun Obasanjo was not spent making noise but learning to rouse others to his banner. In truth, Uba’s time as Obasanjo’s right-hand man only polished his aptitude for human relations and politics. This prepared him for his 2007 gubernatorial campaign (under the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP) where he reportedly pulled out all the stops to win. Although he has attempted the Anambra high seat on other occasions (under Labour Party), this is the first time Uba is certain that he is coming out on top if given a chance. Overall, bluster or no bluster, Senator Andy Uba cannot be ignored.