AFR-IX, the global Internet Service Provider (ISP) with service coverage in over 50 countries in Africa, has established its major Point of Presence (POP) in Rack Centre, West Africa’s carrier neutral Tier III data centre. Founder and Chief Executive of AFR-IX, Mr. Norman Albi, offer international high quality and personalised Internet and data services to corporates and telecommunications in the African continent and our extensive pan-African Network covered with terrestrial and submarine cables makes AFR-IX one of the leading telecom operating service providers in Africa, and the most reliable and largest metro-Ethernet network withMultiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS). Albi commented on Nigeria as a strategic location for AFR-IX, saying: “We needed a top-notch carrier neutral data centre facility for our services and connectivity solutions. Rack Centre satisfied our requirements for providing world-class Tier III certified data centre and data centre interconnection to our clients, especially in the West Africa subregion.”
Managing Director of Rack Centre, Dr. Ayotunde Coker, said it was a “delight welcoming AFR-IX to the array of local and global clients hosting in Rack Centre carrier neutral data centre. We will do our utmost as we do with all our clients to deliver outstanding services for AFR-IX to serve its customers in Africa and beyond. “Since inception in 2013 Rack Centre has maintained a 100 per cent uptime and offers its customers, open access and uncapped interconnect capacities. Its non-affiliation with any telecommunications carrier or Internet Service Providers unlocks access to multiple connectivity providers- over 40 carriers, ISPs and content distribution networks to choose from.” Rack Centre recently announced a $100 million expansion plan as part of the $250 million that Actis, the UK-based equity firm set aside for data centre investments in Africa. Actis recently took a majority stake in Rack Centre. The investment, according to Coker had immensely impacted and reinforced Rack Centre’s global brand and enables its rapid expansion to realise the market potential for high quality data centres in the region.