The Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) has announced that it is joining the world in amplifying the voice and advocating for gender equality and the rights of women in Nigeria and all over the world by hosting an event to celebrate this cause. According to a statement, the celebration which would be held on March 8, will reveal the social, economic, cultural, and political achievements of women in different spheres of human endeavor. Therefore, in line with this year’s theme, “Choose to Challenge,”
participants would draw attention to issues of gender parity and the difference individuals can make in making the world a better place for all. “To this end, accomplished women professionals across various spheres of human callings like Mojolaoluwa Aderemi Makinde, the Head, Brand, and Marketing of Sub Saharan Africa Google; Layla Othman C.E.O L & N Kitchen and Interiors; Nkem Okocha, Andrew Alli CEO South Bridge and Amina Oyagbola Founder WISCAR together With Funke Okpeke, MD/CEO of IT a renowned Company, MainOne as Keynote Speakers, will share their wealth of experience and the challenges that they have to deal with to brace it to top,” the statement added. Topics such as: The Cost of Exclusion, Challenging Gender Stereotypes and Promoting Inclusive Growth; “Inclusivity of Women; Gaining Grounds or Whitewashing; Taking a Precursory look at Gender Politics in the Workplace and Society,” amongst others will be discussed extensively. International Women’s Day is a global event celebrating the social, economic, cultural, and political achievements of women. The event also marks a call to action for accelerating gender parity. It is usually celebrated worldwide with groups coming together to recognise and celebrate women’s achievements and their resilience. The DBN reiterated its commitment to continue to lend its voice to gender equality and empowerment. Excited about the event, the Managing Director/CEO of the Bank, Tony Okpanachi, was quoted to have said: “Women have proven over the years how resourceful and dependable they can be, and in some cases have paid the ultimate price for the good of others. “For us at DBN, International Women Day is an important one as it allows us to acknowledge, celebrate our females as well as remember our fallen heroines, in the likes of great personalities like Dr. Stella Ameyo Adadevoh, Prof. Dora Akunyili, Tolulope Arotile, Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti to mention a few, who have been inspirational, not just to women but to the world at large. “Therefore, we at the DBN Plc, believe in the importance of creating an ecosystem with gender parity where everyone has an equal opportunity to prove his/her role and contribute to societal Development.”