By Emma Okonji HP, global producers of laptops and printers, has announced its latest services for the Nigerian market as part of its commitment to help information technology(IT) teams in the country rise to the challenges that organisations are facing today. The new services, which were designed to enhance employee’s productive capacity, include: HP Active Care for proactive device support and maintenance; HP Proactive Insights for intelligent fleet monitoring and HP Proactive Endpoint Management for multi-OS, endpoint management. Announcing the new services, Global Head and General Manager, Personal Systems Services, HP Inc, Sumeer Chandra, said: “HP has a portfolio of insight-driven services that put actionable insights at IT’s fingertips by securely collecting device telemetry and applying analytics and deep learning via the HP TechPulse platform.” During the recently concluded CES 2021 exhibition, HP announced HP Smart Support that helps IT teams reduce HP Support call times. With this capability, which is available at no additional cost to customers, HP customer service agents now have access to device-level insights through cloud-based telemetry. This allows the agents to improve the customer support experience and reduce the amount of time end users spend on support calls. HP Smart Support is expected to be available via download in early March. “With half of the global workforce working remotely, IT teams are facing unprecedented challenges. They have been tasked with managing, securing, and supporting computing devices for a workforce that is spread across multiple locations, often without the ability to help them in-person. At the same time, it has become paramount for IT to help deliver higher productivity and improved employee experiences with technology,” Chandra said. “Ensuring today’s working environment has minimal impacts on productivity means identifying and resolving device issues before they become problems. “Even before the global pandemic began, more than half of IT managers identified that increased predictive technology analytics will be prioritised when it comes to their device management strategy,” he said. He revealed that the HP Active Care uses artificial intelligence from HP TechPulse to help IT proactively identify needed device repairs and make replacements, if needed, saving valuable employee time and frustration. “The service provides a combination of predictive device health analytics, proactive help desk ticket creation, remote support, remediation services, and next business day onsite response to keep employees up and running. IT teams can also reduce downtime with automatic case generation, which opens a help desk case when an issue is detected and triggers the customer’s IT team to schedule a repair,” he added. “IT managers can now measure, track, and improve their employee end-user experience using analytics and employee experience campaigns, or surveys. Employee engagement is largely driven by their experiences with technology and engagement is correlated with retention. “HP wants to help organisations proactively identify and address technology-related issues that can improve employee experiences and engagement,” he said.