Against the backdrop of the scourge of piracy which has been crippling creativity and intellectual growth of authors, experts in the book industry explained why it is imperative for the Nigerian Copyright Commission to be empowered and proactive so as to make the illicit business unattractive to perpetrators. Funmi Ogundare reports Mr. Ohi Ojo , is an author who took to writing novels in 2018 because of his passion to impact lives and achieve literary success. He has so far written three books titled, ‘ Ikeke: The Home Return’, ‘Burden of Loyalty’, as well as ‘Boys Will be Boys’. Being a rookie, he never allowed this to discourage him, still he invested so much effort, time and resources in putting the literary pieces together. Ojo’s first book, ‘Ikeke: The Home Return’, published in 2018, was recently approved for use by the Lagos State Ministry of Education for JSS two students. For someone in his shoes, his joy knew no bounds when he saw that his book made the 2020/2023 list of those published by the Lagos State Ministry of Education, when selected books are to be used. The implication is that the book has gone through the ministry’s Curriculum Services Department having found it worthy in content and in line with the national curriculum and Lagos State unified schemes of work. Now on his fourth book, Ojo’s morale for writing dropped when he learnt of the activities of pirates who have taken over the market, as he may not be able to break even, despite his investment on it. Investigation by THISDAY revealed that piracy has discouraged authors from writing more books, as their intellectual property are being reproduced by people for economic reasons without prior consent or authorization . Poor quality books are being pushed into the market, thereby resulting in loses for the publishing industry. Ojo told THISDAY that though he was happy that his book was one of those selected by the ministry of education for use by students for the second term, but when it dawned on him that he needed to produce copies of the book, he felt discouraged learning that piracy would make him incur loses. According to him, ” I was happy that my very first attempt into writing, was accepted for use by a very competitive state like Lagos. After the initiatial euphoria, it dawned on me that I needed to go further, even among competitors. With the quality of my work, I asked myself if I could break even with it. The quality of my print was quite different and high, so I can now imagine how much competiting titles will be sold. ” I examined the fact that many students are looking for the cheaper one. I wouldn’t blame them. If you are buying four books at N1,000, why spend that amount for three books? So the challenge for me is that why should I go and incur a loss or why will I bring down the quality of my product because I want to meet the demand of the target audience?” Ojo who is the Head, Lagos Liaison Office/Training School, National Institute for Cultural Orientation (NICO), said once the pirates discover th