Start-up entrepreneurs – Tosin Adelowo, Co-Founder, Chekkit Technologies; Fela Akinse CEO of SALUBATA; Babajide Oluwase, Founder of Ecotutu; Nkechi Idinmachi, Founder of Machi and Bamidele Joshua, Founder of Mainlotz Edge, have emerged first five winners at the Orange Corners Nigeria Business Pitch Competition. Owing to this, the entrepreneurs have access to a €135,000 start-up capital of 75 per cent grant and 25 per cent loan provided by the Netherlands Enterprise Agency. According to a statement, the virtual pitch competition which was held on Thursday January 21, 2021, marked the end of the 6-month Orange Corners Nigeria Business Incubation programme. Orange Corners Nigeria is an initiative of the Kingdom of The Netherlands, implemented by Nigeria’s Enterprise Support Organisation, FATE Foundation. The programme was launched in Nigeria in July 10, 2019, and to date has supported 60 entrepreneurs with Enterprise Development Training, Business Incubation and Advisory Services, Mentoring and Funding valued over N180 million. The businesses were assessed and the winners decided by expert Jury; Tim Spaans; Deputy Programme Manager,Orange Corners, Oge Nnaife; Head startups and Youth Enterprise, FATE Foundation and Ajulo Ojeawe; CSR and Sustainability Manager, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Plc. In attendance was the Vice Consul Economic Affairs, Netherlands Consulate General, Lagos, Abel Neering. In his congratulatory speech to the entrepreneurs, Neering said: “The combination of technology, entrepreneurship and innovative ideas are vital for sustainable and green economic growth irrespective of the sector you are operating in. The facilitation of entrepreneurship is therefore crucial to solve tomorrow and today’s challenges and achieve the SDGs. “Before the holiday break, I actually attended the Nigeria digital economy conference organised by the US Chamber of commerce and Orange Corners Alumni, the Edtech Company; Afrilearn participated in this digital entrepreneurship competition and they won. Next to Afrilearn, there are other many success stories of Orange Corners Alumni running successful businesses in various sectors. I am therefore very proud of this programme, the team and the entrepreneurs’’.