Emmanuel Addeh The federal government has inaugurated a 30-KWP solar power facility in Mbela Lagaje area, Mayo Belwa local government area, Adamawa State. Speaking during the event, Managing Director of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), the implementing agency, Mr. Salihijo Ahmad, pledged that the government would continue to provide access to reliable electric power supply for rural dwellers irrespective of where they live. Ahmad noted that this would be done in a way that would allow for reasonable return on investment through appropriate tariff that is economically responsive and supportive of the average rural customer. He stressed that as mandated by the federal government, powering communities in the country was another testament of the impact of REA’s off-grid solutions. He added that through the project, the quality of lives of the beneficiaries will be improved and both the young and the old will have the opportunity to explore the possibilities derived from clean, safe and reliable energy. The REA MD challenged the beneficiaries to optimise the possibilities to create new opportunities that will be of value to all members of this community and even beyond. “True national development happens when there is equitable deployment of such sustainable interventions. Leveraging on the leadership and support of the federal ministry of power. “We will ensure that unserved and underserved communities across Nigeria continue to feel the impact of the federal government’s energy interventions,” he explained. Also speaking, Governor of Adamawa state, Mr. Ahmadu Fintiri, who was represented by the Commissioner for Works and Energy, Mr. Adamu Atiku, stated that electricity will enliven the socioeconomic activities in the benefiting communities. “The industrious people of these communities are expected to witness growth in business and productivity with this clean, safe and reliable electricity while ensuring good education for school children and security in the community at night,” he stated. In his remarks, Chairman, Senate Committee on Power, Gabriel Suswam, who was represented by Senator Aisha Dahiru, assured that at the 9th Assembly, electricity access has formed a major part of their conversation. He noted that because of the lawmakers’ understanding of the pivotal role of electricity access to national development, they have continuously steered developmental actions around the deployment of electricity infrastructure across the nation. “Projects such as the one we are here to commission today further drives home the relevance of renewable energy and why we must continue to leverage the abundant natural resources and expertise we have in this great nation. “As we are all aware, the grid is over-burdened, so it is a strategic move to open up the renewable energy space to cater to our electricity needs through forward-leaning policies and programmes to close the electricity gap,” he said.