The Nigerian Institution of Structural Engineers (NIStructE) has elected the Deputy Rector (Academic) Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech), Dr. Kehinde Osifala as the 20th president of the institute. The investiture held recently, at the college, attracted experts in the field of engineering field. Speaking at the investiture, the Rector, Mr. Obafemi Omokungbe congratulated NIStructE and the newly elected president, noting that for Yabatech community, this is a laudable and worthy of celebration, to have one of the institution’s best brain, an erudite scholar, a renowned teacher and a seasoned administrator as head to run the affairs of the NIStructE. Omokungbe hinted that Osifala who had served meritoriously in the college for 36 years, had also contributed immensely to its academic and administrative development. He assured NIStructE that Osifala will bring in the desired development to the profession and will also raise the quality of service of the institution, and this is a call to service and great responsibility to the association which the new president has so much passion for.” He said the role of NIStructE is critical to our national and economic development as well as our safety, adding that there is need to regulate the profession to ensure that only qualified and competent hands are engaged. ” It is important that the necessary partnership with the government and other relevant organisations must be formed by the institute to checkmate the activities of quacks. Emphasis must be laid on professional development which the Institute is highly committed. With the right leadership the challenges facing the institution will be reduced to the barest minimum or eradicated completely. Omokungbe promised the college’s readiness to continue to support and work together with NIStructE as well as other professional bodies to fulfill their objectives. The Chairman of the investiture and former Yabatech Governing Council Chairman, Prince Lateef Fagbemi, SAN, noted that Osifala’s appointment demonstrates the epitomization of his professional acumen as a thoroughbred engineer and a visionary leader, with whom his colleagues are well pleased. According to him,” for those of us that have followed your earthly sojourn for a while, this elevation did not come as a surprise. A man of several firsts, and vast experience, I am proud to say that your professional qualification as a renowned structural engineer is not only on paper, but also in practical terms.” The former Rector of Yabatech, Mr. G.M. Okufi also commended Osifala, noting that it is a great privilege, an earned honour and also a burden to be called upon to lead one’s professional colleagues. “This is a popular way to mark the people who shape a profession by conferring leadership on them, “he said, adding that over the years, he had known Osifala to be a man of courage with a clear vision and a desire to serve. He prayed that these qualities will not depart from him on this another assignment in his life. In his inaugural address, Osifala said he was humbled to be elected from the academia as the 20th president this time from Yabatech, the cradle of higher education in Nigeria. According to him, the justification for the flexibility of choice from the two realms is simply because engineering is a combination of theory and practice, and the fact that materials from which structural elements are made researched into by the academics. “Since I am basically from the academia, emphasis would be placed on training and re-training of our members during my tenure.”