Emma Okonji and Raheem Akingbolu Hope PSBank, a subsidiary of Unified Payment Services Limited, one of the licensed Payment Service Banks (PSB), has commenced free enrolment of the National Identification Number (NIN) for Nigerians including its customers across the country. Hope PSBank has six regional offices across the geopolitical zones of the country located in Kano, Adamawa, Anambra, Oyo, FCT, Lagos and Rivers state, where it is currently enrolling Nigerians for free. Speaking at a media briefing in Lagos, recently, to announce the NIN enrolment exercise, the Managing Director, Hope PSBank, Mr. Ayotunde Kuponiyi, said the bank was delighted to partner with federal government through the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) on the NIN registration exercise, noting that this will afford Nigerians the opportunity to register and capture their biometrics seamlessly and quickly. “We are committed to working with the Federal Government to ensure that every citizen enrols for NIN as this will mean an easier identification process that has been lacking” Kuponiyi said.
He also explained that Nigerians could on their own, and from the comfort of their homes, register online through the bank’s platform and thereafter visit the nearest enrolment center to capture their biometrics. He further stated that the bank had intensified efforts to rapidly expand the number of enrollment centers as it is currently recruiting thousands of agents that will set up centres for enrolment across the country. While commending the federal government through the Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy for expanding and extending the registration footprints to the bank, he assured Nigerians of the bank’s readiness to make the registration easier through the platform. Nigerians can register for NIN enrolment by filling the NIN form on Hope PSbank website or mobile app, and then go to, “any of our centers for data capture by presenting just their phone numbers and means of identification.”
This, he said would significantly reduce the waiting period at the capture centers. According to Kuponiyi, once the registration is completed, the customer will receive a message which says “thank you for starting your registration, please visit our nearest centre or outlet for your data capturing”.
He further said that the customer could view the authorised enrolment centres for biometric capture as contained in the message sent to him or her. “We understand how important this exercise is to Nigerians and we are ready to play our part by ensuring that Nigerians get their NIN through our platform which can be accessed in various designated enrolment centres.
“We are quite excited to be the only Payment Service Bank currently undertaking the NIN registration exercise,” he noted. The Managing Director of the digital bank further described the initiative of the bank for NIN registration exercise as a further testament to the quality of services and technological infrastructure available to customers.
Also speaking on the project, its Chief Marketing Officer, Mrs. Kathleen Erhimu disclosed that all necessary arrangememts and facilities have been put in place to make the exercise seamless, stressing that adequate personnel have been deployed to all the enrolment centres to make the process much faster than currently experienced.