Funmi Ogundare A charity organisation, Daniel Ogechi Akujobi Memorial Foundation (DOAM), weekend, distributed deworming tablets/syrup and multivitamin supplement to pupils of Ilasan Primary School and Ajiran Primary School, both in Eti-Osa, Lekki, Lagos. The distribution which was supported by Life back Pharmaceuticals Limited, Reals Pharmaceuticals Limited and Niger Biscuit Company, was aimed at promoting routine deworming and vitamin supplement especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking at the ceremony, the Senior Programme Officer, Adaeze Ayanna expressed concern that a lot of government schools don’t have a system in place where deworming programme is carried out regularly, adding that the foundation saw the need to undertake the initiative. A registered nurse with the foundation, Mrs. Chinonso Ekwueme said the multivitamin supplement will help in boosting the children’s immune system and protect them against infections. “Because it is a remote area, most of them find it difficult to take fruits and boost their immune system against infection , so that is why we gave them the syrup and tablets.” She said the deworming tablets and syrup should be taken every three months interval, adding that it does not have any adverse effect on the children. “You need to assure children about what they are taking and why it should be taken the right way. It’s just like taking tetanus toxoid, we usually instruct people to take it five times in a year, but you see some people taking booster dose more than that, so you need to instruct them on the right way to take it which is at every three-month interval, “she said. The Head teacher of Ajiran Community Primary School, Eti-Osa, Mr. Ayuba Saliu Aroundara expressed excitement about the deworming exercise saying that it would be beneficial to the health of his pupils. “It is not all the parents that would be able to afford the drugs. You could imagine that some of them in the last one or two years had not been dewormed. The initiative will go a long way in ensuring that   our pupils are  healthy and safe especially during this Covid-19 period.” He addded that the multivitamins will also go a long way in boosting the immune system of the children against any infection. “It is a way of helping the children to guide against any infection,” he said. He applauded the foundation’s initiative saying that they could still come and do more to ensure that the children are healthy.