By Seriki Adinoyi In addition to the 20,000 customers metered so far under the National Mass Metering Programme, the Jos Electricity Distribution Plc has assured that 100,000 customers would be metered in the next six months. This was disclosed during a three-day Strategy Retreat organised by the Management for Divisional and Departmental Heads, alongside Regional Managers. At the retreat with the theme ‘Turning the Tide for Improved Performance’, the Managing Director, Engr. Hashim Bakori, said the company would provide 20 more operational vehicles to enable the field staff discharge their work more effectively. He disclosed that an additional 500 Maximum Demand meters would be procured and installed for customers before July ending. He cautioned that on no account should Regional Managers allow the meters to lie fallow, saying all meters supplied must be installed for customers at no cost. The Managing Director also directed the Regional to ensure that all prepaid meters in their domains are pole-mounted with immediate effect. He said in order to ease the work of the field workers, its management has procured 50 ladders, Toolboxes, Pliers, Led phases testers, Operating rods, Safety belts, Boots, Hats and Jackets for usage. He added that network consumables such as fuses, cross arms, sockets, ferrules, aluminium conductors, disc/pot insulators, transformer oils amongst others have been procured and distributed with the aim to stabilising and solidifying the network. Bakori said the company under his leadership would embark on aggressive rehabilitation of lines and feeders so as to enable the company deliver stable, reliable and durable quality energy to her customers. While charging the Regional Managers to constantly check and guide against overloaded transformer in their domains, Bakori stressed that effective and beneficial customer relationships management should be their priorities. The Managing Director appealed to customers to reciprocate the quality services being provided by the company by timely paying for their consumed energies stressing that at the moment, the company was going through a lot of difficulties with most customer that are hugely indebted to Jos Disco.