By James Sowole Ondo State Governor, Mr Oluwatotimi Akeredolu yesterday took the oath of office for his Second Term in office with a declaration that the next four years in office is not for relaxation. Akeredolu was inaugurated along with his deputy, Mr Lucky Ayedatiwa, who replaced the former deputy governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi, at a ceremony, held at the State International Event Centre, The Dome. The ceremony, was attended by the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Chairman of the Nigeria’s Governors Forum and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, the governors of Ogun, Lagos, Osun and Edo states Prince Dapo Abiodun, Babajide Sanwoolu, Gboyega Oyetola and Godwin Obaseki, respectively among other dignitaries. Akeredolu in his inaugural speech tagged “Pathway to Redemption,”:declared that he would not depart from the trodden part which earned him affection and deep reference from.the citizenry. He said: “We shall continue, with more vigour, to justify the trust earned by our administration. The second term, for us, is not a time for relaxation. “We are not under any illusion that it will be easy. We are, however, ready to proceed on the journey with renewed enthusiasm and vigour.” Akeredolu, who highlighted some of the achievements of his administration in the last four years, noted that a lot of dynamics had come into play since he took over the reins of governance in the 2017. He said the change had neccesitated the need for review of the administration’s JMPPR acronyms stating that in the next four years, the administration would be pursuing a totally repackaged programmes christened REDEEMED. Specifically, he said the administration shall focus on Rural and Agricultural Development; Education Advancement and Human Capital Development; Development through Massive Infrastructure; and Efficient Service Delivery and Policy Implementation. Other aspects of the REDEEMED policy, are Effective Healthcare and Social Welfare Services; Maintenance of Law and Order for Adequate Security; Energy, Mining and Sustainable Industries and Digital Revolution and Entrepreneurship. While starting that COVID-19 pandemic have had a delerious effect on the global economy, Akeredolu said ingenuity, resourcefulness, courage and hardwork would be the needed virtues for survival in the days ahead. Appreciating leadership of the APC right from President Muhammadu Buhari and all other leaders, Akeredolu said he shall be expecting their cooperation as he moves into the second half of the mandate given by the people of Ondo State.