By Udora Orizu Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has appealed to the new Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa, not to disappoint the Nigerian youth.
Frank in a congratulatory message in Abuja Thursday, lauded Bawa for acknowledging the fact that his appointment is a hope raiser for youths in governance.
He advised the EFCC boss to work in such a manner that Nigerians, especially the youth, will say they are proud of EFCC under his watch.
“Be rest assured that the youths are willing to support you to succeed in the fight against corruption and I urge you to give them the opportunity to do so. However, the youths will not also fail to criticise your action or inaction that may deviate or offend their high hopes and enthusiasm of having one of theirs in that crucial position,” he said
Speaking further, he urged the 40 year old to make a positive overhaul and transformation of the commission.
According to him, it was high time for the anti-graft body to conscientiously and faithfully discharge its constitutional responsibilities of checkmating corruption towards enhancing national development.
The political activist further advised him to ensure his assumption of office mark the end of impunity, utter disregard for the rule of law and abuse of the fundamental human rights of citizens by operatives of the Commission.
Frank said, ”The EFCC should work for Nigeria and Nigerians, not a few privileged persons in position of authority. Fight corruption everywhere and not in selected places or persons. We look forward to an EFCC that would work to enthrone probity, transparency and accountability in all facet of our national life. We want an EFCC that will not single out members of one political party or ethnic group for investigation and prosecution or persecution.
”Anybody suspected to have abused his office by helping himself from the public purse should be investigated and prosecuted irrespective of his political leaning, ethnicity or creed. We want an EFCC that would be accountable and transparent in its dealings as an agency while fighting to ensure accountability and probity in public service and private sector. Learn from the successes and failures of your predecessors in office. Eight years is not forever.”