In a way to ease the burden on its customers and for a seamless service delivery to them, Investment One Financial Services Limited, a leading financial and investment services provider in Nigeria, has created a toll free communication line to further enhance customer satisfaction. In a statement, the Company said that the new initiative was a value added service to its existing and prospective clients. The initiative according to the Company is also to cater for the wellbeing of its clients as they will not need to visit its offices physically to do their business transactions in this era of Covid-19 pandemic. “We want our clients to keep safe by keeping a social distance while they stay at home to transact business with us at no cost,” a source in the company disclosed . The toll free line 0800-INVESTMENT or 0800-4683786368 is dedicated for the purpose of communication with the Company with no charges incurred by the customer. Investment One is a diversified organisation that provides various financial and investment services all over Nigeria. Since founded in 2007 following the Central Bank of Nigeria’s initiated reforms in the banking industry, Investment One (then GTB Asset Management Limited) has offered and continues to offer innovative investment options coupled with value added services in Nigeria’s financial services space. “We pride ourselves in providing first class services in the industry. Our strong expertise at understanding clients’ needs and mapping them against a wide range of superior products gives us a comprehensive edge in the market share. We are endowed with a team of investment professionals poised to provide clients with premium services founded on in-depth market insight, innovation and service excellence. Be it advising, executing, managing or transferring wealth to future generations, our Clients will find the full complement of investment solutions in our one-shop location – simply put, the 360° Investment Partnership.” The Company’s business is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), with core strength centered but not limited to Investment Management, Trust Services, Financial Advisory Services and through our subsidiaries provide Securities Brokerage, Funds Management and Pensions Services to individuals, corporate institutions, state governments as well as government agencies and parastatals. “We pride ourselves in providing first class services in the industry. Our strong expertise at understanding clients’ needs and mapping them against a wide range of superior products gives us a comprehensive edge in the market share,” the Company disclosed.