James Emejo in Abuja
The Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Mr. Clem Agba, has said the federal government plans to deploy the “Eye-Mark Web Application” to track, monitor and evaluate project execution across the country. The minister explained that the GRID 3 geo-spatial technology, which is domiciled in the monitoring and evaluation department in the planning arm of the ministry would enhance transparency and integrity in projects execution through citizen participation going forward. He spoke when he received a draft policy document on National Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) to measure results and link evaluation evidence to policy, planning and budgeting processes and to promote public accountability and learning for improved performance. The document, which is the first draft policy on M & E in the country, was developed by a tripartite team comprising Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) and a consultant, Ian C. Davies. The minister, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Mr. Sufuyan Ojeifo, said that government would henceforth not only earmark money for development projects but also “eye-mark” the progress of work in the execution of such projects nationwide as captured in the budget. He explained that the intent of the, “eye-mark web app,” was to use geo-spatial technology to monitor the progress of all projects that are layered on the Nigerian map with the longitudes and latitudes of the projects clearly indicated. According to him, whereas ministries, departments and agencies were involved in their monitoring and evaluation, the national M & E would deploy the proposed solution in correlating evaluation claims and reports. The minister said the country was big and therefore the web application will help to facilitate the process of robust and effective projects monitoring and evaluation. The application, according to the minister would serve as a platform where citizens could upload pictures/records on the progress of work regarding various projects in their jurisdictions in such a way that nobody can file in false or defective evaluation and monitoring reports/claims. This, he said, would ensure that integrity and accountability were maintained in handling government business while building citizenship trust in government’s policies and programmes. Agba commended the team that presented the policy document for its effort, adding that he would look at, make necessary input into the document, and present it to the National Economic Council (NEC), before its final submission to the Federal Executive Council (FEC), for approval. He told the team that the Medium-Term National Development Plans (MTNDPs 2021-2025 & 2026-2030) and the Nigeria Agenda 2050 currently being developed, extensively encouraged the institutionalisation of M & E in Nigeria’s development process because “what is not monitored is not done.”