Distinguished eastern women group, Nkata Ndi Inyom Igbo (NNII) has congratulated the new leadership of Ohaneze Ndigbo, urging him to be receptive to new ideas and focus on challenges ahead. This is contained in a statement signed by the BOT chairperson, NNII, Regina Amadi-Njoku. According to the group, Ohaneze Ndigbo remains one of the highly revered titles that has conserved the formidable unity among the sons of Igbo across the country and in the diaspora, urging the new Ohaneze to live up to expectation as his predecessors to protect the collective interest of Ndigbo. The statement further noted that the challenges ahead are very enormous especially as the nation is battling the surge of herdsmen in the south. While reiterating the position of the group, Amadi-Njoku maintained that NNII has been, and will remain a formidable group of influential women who eschew partisan alignment with any individual or group at the expense of our most cherished pastime as a people with value and respect. “The challenges facing the Igbo nation in Nigeria today created the consciousness that a properly primed Ohaneze leadership can provide a potent negotiation tool for Ndi Igbo. “As a Pam-Igbo group, we at NNII wish to appeal to you to show that you are NDI NDU UZOR in the real sense. The real leadership of Umunne must come with the family spirit of Ndigbo. We pray that you take time to heal the pre-election rancor and misunderstanding which is not unusual in any human interaction. We believe that a peaceful ala Igbo is a precursor to development and progress. “We all know that NKATA is the Igbo way of bonding and discussing socio-political, cultural, and economic progress and therefore suggests it should be your mantra. We want the new leadership to return to the long-held Igbo values of community, the Onye Aghala Nwanne Ya and the Igwe Bu Ike spirit Ndigbo succeeds with and is known for. The group advised the new leadership to remain focus and avoid being used by any group or individual in settling old or personal scores as that will derail Ndigbo from achieving their goals. “We want a leadership that represents the interests of all Igbo stakeholders, big and small of Alaigbo development, and inclusive of women participation in governance and development. We want a leadership that would put up our course in a Nigeria that does not see any leg of the tripod holding the country as inferior to the other.” the statement added The group also advised the new leadership to remain receptive to new ideas as challenges ahead would be more of ideological wars than initially thought, and to ensure the unity of Southwest towards 2023 agenda. This is contained in a statement signed by the BOT chairperson, NNII, Regina Amadi-Njoku. According to the group, Ohaneze Ndigbo remains one of the highly revered titles that has conserved the formidable unity among the sons of Igbo across the country and in the diaspora, urging the new Ohaneze to live up to expectation as his predecessors to protect the collective interest of Ndigbo. The statement further noted that the challenges ahead are very enormous especially as the nation is battling the surge of herdsmen in the south. While reiterating the position of the group, Amadi-Njoku maintained that NNII has been, and will remain a formidable group of influential women who eschew partisan alignment with any individual or group at the expense of our most cherished pastime as a people with value and respect. “The challenges facing the Igbo nation in Nigeria today created the consciousness that a properly primed Ohaneze leadership can provide a potent negotiation tool for Ndi Igbo. “As a Pam-Igbo group, we at NNII wish to appeal to you to show that you are NDI NDU UZOR in the real sense. The real leadership of Umunne must come with the family spirit of Ndigbo. We pray that you take time to heal the pre-election rancor and misunderstanding which is not unusual in any human interaction. We believe that a peaceful ala Igbo is a precursor to development and progress. “We all know that NKATA is the Igbo way of bonding and discussing socio-political, cultural, and economic progress and therefore suggests it should be your mantra. We want the new leadership to return to the long-held Igbo values of community, the Onye Aghala Nwanne Ya and the Igwe Bu Ike spirit Ndigbo succeeds with and is known for. The group advised the new leadership to remain focus and avoid being used by any group or individual in settling old or personal scores as that will derail Ndigbo from achieving their goals. “We want a leadership that represents the interests of all Igbo stakeholders, big and small of Alaigbo development, and inclusive of women participation in governance and development. We want a leadership that would put up our course in a Nigeria that does not see any leg of the tripod holding the country as inferior to the other.” the statement added The group also advised the new leadership to remain receptive to new ideas as challenges ahead would be more of ideological wars than initially thought, and to ensure the unity of Southwest towards 2023 agenda.