By Alex Enumah The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami, SAN, on Tuesday suggested the establishment of a Pastoral Commission to address the constant clashes between farmers and herders in the country. Malami, who noted that the clashes between farmers and herders have dominated media space of recent said it is time for all critical stakeholders to come together and proffer lasting solutions. He was speaking at the 2021 Peace, Unity and Security Lecture Series held in Abuja. He said, “Nigeria is predominately agricultural in nature and by geography. To that extent, there is constant mobility of herders across the different belts of Nigeria. “It is, perhaps, time to consider setting-up of a commission for pastoralism regulated by law. This might provide recipes for resolving protracted farmer-herder conflicts”. The AGF who was represented by his media aide, Dr Umar Gwandu, stated that the commission may even engage in or facilitate in-depth analytical studies with a view to providing lasting solutions for the benefit of people and the country. He also suggested revamping of the activities of the Nomadic Education Commission with a view to complimenting the efforts of government in resolving the farmer-herder clashes. He commended the organizers of for building the theme of this year’s lecture series around the issue of peaceful co-existence and mutual harmony among interrelated and interdependent communities in the country. He said as the Chief Law Officer of Nigeria, he believes some of the ways for a peaceful Nigeria include strict adherence to the rule of law, respecting the sanctity of the fundamental human rights in all ramifications, including freedom of movement and the right of citizens to stay at whatever part of the country they choose to and other provisions as contained in Chapter 4 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I want to submit that mastering and adopting conflict management strategies, interpersonal and intercommunity tolerance, enhanced public relations techniques, understanding of multi-culturism and diversity, socially responsible and objective media, properly motivated and well-trained security forces with patriotic Nigerians sincerely committed to duty are recipe for a peaceful Nigeria”, the AGF added.