By Bennett Oghifo Chateau Royal, a leading real estate firm in the nation has unveiled a prototype of its latest D’luxe Bespoke estate that would comprise about 100 housing units. According to the firm, the estate is part of the its commitment to enable Nigerians have access to affordable and quality houses that meet their financial status. Speaking in Ogun State recently at the unveiling of the estate to realtors, the Managing Director, Chateau Royale Real Estate Limited, Mr. Tobi Osonuga said the company through the event is offering the masses affordable luxury. “We actually know what is obtainable in the country as what people need because it is very sorry that you are doing what people do not need. Also, affordability is important but we went a little further by building affordable luxury. This prototype standing currently is class, affordable and something that is beyond what is currently obtainable in the market. “Fundamentally to know that this is our first project and we are just three years old, you can imagine what we can do as we grow in the industry for the next five years,” he said. The estate located at Royal Wales Estate, Mowe, Lagos Ibadan express way, opposite Christopher University, has a title of Cof O and ranges from N8.5 million to N20 million and comes with a flexible payment plan up to 30 months with a low as one million initial deposit. The estate when finished will contain a total of 100 housing units that comprise 40 two and three bedroom apartments and 10 blocks of two and three semi-detached bungalows respectively. On the inflationary trends in the industry, the Managing Director highlighted the need to maintain quality in the industry by players. “We understand the basic essentials of human need is housing and it is necessary; we find a way around it in giving values despite the inflationary increases in the sector even though prices of building materials went up beyond what we do buy before occasioned by so many factor like exchange rate, COVID-19. ”Despite all these, we have been able to maintain quality as we did not downplay our component because of price and we are very intentional about it. From the architectural design, finishing, structural works and rooms layout we have paid much details to all this regardless of the hash terrain we operate in,” he stated, On driving down the cost of housing in the country in view of unemployment rate in the country and the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, he, therefore, called on the government to make approvals of necessary documents affordable and come up with policies that are targeted at crashing every component of the industry.”