Mary Nnah The entire staff and Board of Strategic Communications Advisory Firm, A’Lime Media Limited, have joined family and friends to mourn the death of the company’s founder and practice director, Emilia Asim-Ita. Family sources revealed that Emilia, who also co-founded the Future Awards Africa, died Friday, January 29, 2021, a few days after a successful appendicitis surgery. Expressing his grief and that of staff members, Lead, Operations, Engagements and Client Services, A’Lime Media Limited, Runor Agbroko, said, “We are devastated and heartbroken to have lost our founder and practice director who greatly impacted us and everyone that came her way”. “We are immensely grateful for all that Emilia achieved in her brief stay on earth where she dedicated her life in service to humanity, showing an unrelenting commitment to making a genuine difference in the lives of people. “The massive outpouring of love and show of support from clients, friends and industry stakeholders attest to the multitude of lives that have been impacted through her friendship, leadership and lifestyle themed in extreme goodness and positive energy.” Lead, Publishing and Editorial, A’lime Media Limited, Emmanuel Adesanya, described Emilia as a rare gem that is hard to come by. “Emilia had exceptional qualities that endeared almost everyone to her, For someone who achieved so much, her level of humility, was exemplary and it is difficult to fill the void that her death has created. “Emilia left behind a robust organisation that will keep her vision alive and we are resolved to build greatly on her outstanding legacies as a company.” Until her death, Emilia was Founder and Practice Director, for A’lime Media Limited. She foundedA’lime Media Limited; a strategic communications advisory firm, as a result of her deep passion for communications in all spheres. She was an extraordinarily intelligent and accomplished entrepreneur who built an organisation that has in the last decade, contributed to improving the corporate communications practice in Nigeria. As a promising adult, Emilia obtained her BSC and MSC degrees in Mass Communication from the prestigious University of Lagos, Nigeria, in 2008. In the last 16 years, Emilia has worked in all facets of the Integrated Marketing Communication gamut alongside youth development and specialised communication and has completed various training programmes. Emilia taught and consulted on Development Communications, Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental & Social Risk Management, Corporate Reporting, Advocacy & Policy Influencing, Corporate Governance, Grant Writing, and Executive Coaching amongst many others. She was a highly resourceful team player with a knack for getting tasks done. She also garnered expertise in stakeholder engagement, youth development and advocacy, corporate performance, leadership, strategy and multicultural social impact/ community development. Emilia lived a devout Christian life and was deeply loved by her family and friends, and everyone who came in contact with her. For information on funeral arrangements please contact ‘Korede Okpekpe via 08134008161.