By Michael Olugbode The King of Kanuri in Lagos (Mai Kanuribe of Lagos), Alhaji Mustapha Muhammadu, and two others have been killed in a road accident during a trip with the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, to Mafa. The governor, who was accompanied by a large crowd of political associates and government officials, had yesterday taken a short trip to Mafa Local Government Area where he hails from, to register in the ongoing All Progressives Congress (APC) Registration and Revalidation Exercise. In the convoy with the governor were Deputy Governor, Alhaji Umar Kadafur; Senator Kashim Shettima (Borno Central), APC state Caretaker Chairman, Alhaji Ali Dalori; Chief of Staff, Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly, members of National and State Assemblies, members of the state Executive Council, some council chairmen, governor’s aides and other prominent politicians and members of the public. A source said the private vehicle of the Mai Kanuribe, who was at the rear of the large convoy, had a busted tyre and capsized, causing the immediate death of the monarch and one other occupier of the vehicle. The driver was said to have died later at the hospital as he could not survive the injuries from the accident. A source said: “The governor and his entourage on Tuesday went to his hometown, Mafa LGA, to participate in the ongoing All Progressives Congress (APC) Registration and Revalidation Exercise, unfortunately, while on their way back after the exercise, one of the vehicles in the convoy conveying the Mai Kanuribe of Lagos had a road mishap and crashed along Mafa-Maiduguri road. “Two occupants of the vehicle, including Mai Kanuribe of Lagos, Alhaji Mustapha Muhammadu, died on the spot while the driver, who sustained serious injuries, later died some few hours after.” Sources said the governor and the entourage evacuated the remains of the deceased to their family house in Maiduguri. A Kanuribe’s family member, who spoke anonymously, said: “Innaillahi, death has occurred of Mai Mustapha Muhammed, the Mai Kanuribe of Lagos State, in a fatal motor accident on Mafa Road, Borno State. The burial is scheduled for 2.30 p.m. today (Tuesday) at his residence in Bulumkuttu ward of Maiduguri.” A police source, while confirming the incident, said it happened after the governor had registered in the ongoing party’s registration and was returning from Mafa. He said: “The vehicle conveying the Mai-Kanuribe, a district head of Borno State in Lagos summersaulted after one of the back tyre busted, leading to his death and one other passenger. “Two of the injured victims were rushed to the hospital in Maiduguri, but died, and their corpses were brought to Maiduguri for funeral prayers.”