ByJames Sowole in Akure The All Progressives Congress (APC) Southwest caucus in the House of Representatives Tuesday declared support for the action taken by the Ondo State Governor, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, against criminality in the Southwest. The lawmakers commended Akeredolu who doubles as the Chairman of the Southwest Governors’ Forum for his pronouncement that there is no place for criminals in the zone. Representing the seventy-two members of the caucus, Hon. Femi Fakeye (Osun), Dolapo (Lagos) and Mayowa Akinfolarin (Ondo) insisted that the cultural differences of the various ethnicities in the country must be respected. While stressing that criminality has no ethnicity, the leader of the delegation, Hon. Fakeye who spoke on behalf of the seventy-two members of the caucus, said they were in support of any legitimate step to flush out criminals in the Southwest. The lawmakers also hailed the giant strides recorded by the Governor in the state, stressing that his performance in office was responsible for his resounding victory in the October 10, 2020 poll. “Because of the stride you have achieved in your first term, the people of Ondo State have returned you for a second term. You have performed and still performing. “Let us first commend your efforts in Ore. The ore flyover. That speaks for itself. It’s one of the reasons you were returned. Again, the Ore industrial hub, there is no country that can make it without an industrialised economy. Responding, Akeredolu said the protection of lives and property of the people must take priority, adding that it was a duty he was elected to perform. The governor said it was part of the move to secure Ondo state and Southwest in general that led to the creation of Amotekun Corps. He said:”The most important thing you have said is that we have to think about our people first and in doing that, we have to make a declaration. “We felt convinced that we can not have a situation where a first class Oba is killed, a deputy VC killed, kidnapped the chief of staff’s wife and we feel the people elected us to protect their lives and property. It’s one of the things that led us to create Amotekun. “When we came up with Amotekun, people were scared, they thought it was state police, but we stood our ground and Amotekun has come to stay. “You have a duty to us, to our people and that has to do with the issue of state police. The time is now. This rampant security challenge is virtually everywhere. This issue of state police, we need to pursue it. “If we have the state police, we may not need Amotekun. It will be a great fight for our people.
We must stand together. I commend the Governor of Kano State who said cows should not he moved to the South again for grazing.”