By Emmanuel Addeh The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) Thursday moved to curb the incessant loss and hoarding of petroleum products across the country, with the inauguration of the Downstream Remote Monitoring System (DRMS). An inventory management solution for petroleum products supply distribution, the agency noted that the new programme will act as a regulatory tool designed to ensure products availability throughout the country. Speaking at the event, the Director and Chief Executive Officer of the DPR, Mr Sarki Auwalu, noted that the newly-launched digital platform will provide easy access to retail outlet information, enhance oil and gas industry service permit, access to coastal vessel licence data and seamless integration into the products import and export permit system. In addition, the DPR boss stressed that it will further provide advanced information on depot operations and licensing, tracking of refining and blending plants, licensing operations as well as enhanced domestic gas penetration and utilisation. According to Auwalu, the programme will ensure real time data on distribution of products nationwide, enhance product accountability, eliminate products hoarding and checkmate artificial scarcity and adulteration. He explained that as a business enabler and opportunity provider, the department will continue to employ technology and innovations to achieve government’s aspirations and policies for an efficient and vibrant downstream sector. He said: “The Nigerian oil and gas industry is witnessing digital transformation in line with presidential mandate for transparency, accountability and domestic energy security as well as ministerial key priorities for products sufficiency and availability. “Today, we launch a game-changing platform that will reshape the conduct of businesses and operations in the downstream. This solution will strategically position the industry for increased profitability and investments. “DRMS is an inventory management solution for petroleum products supply and distribution designed to provide a holistic view of the downstream value chain in real time. This system guarantees the availability and reliability of real time data for decision making and planning purposes.” For the downstream operators, Auwalu explained that it will provide the required information to drive value from existing businesses, investments to fund expansions and growth opportunities for new ventures. He said that it will also enable business owners monitor operations of their facilities from the comfort of their offices, reassuring stakeholders that the DRMS solution is robust enough to accommodate all their needs for efficient petroleum products tracking and monitoring. “To make the system readily available across all locations, we have integrated the USSD code *7117# into the DRMS portal. This code can be dialled on any of the mobile networks to submit data using a unique facility identification code,” he noted. Coupled with the National Oil & Gas Excellence Centre (NOGEC) in Lagos inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari, Auwalu said that it was a key component of the Integrated Data Mining and Analytics Centre (IDMAC). “IDMAC is structured to position Nigeria as a top-tier destination for credible, bankable and investment grade data in oil and gas and to provide cost-effective data and analytics solutions for investors, financiers and operators,” he said. Auwalu stated that as an integral part of the DPR’s suite of business automation solutions, DRMS had been configured to feed into IDMAC to harness all the insights and capabilities of the application thereof. In his remarks, the Senate Chairman, Joint Committee on Petroleum, Downstream and Upstream, Senator Sabo Mohammed, who was represented by Senator Chris Ekpenyong, lauded the DPR for upgrading and overhauling their system. “All along, we have been operating an analogue system. This is an opportunity to join the rest of the world in monitoring petroleum products being produced in Nigeria. “I urge you to use it for the benefit of our people. This is the time to ensure that our refineries are activated. It is a sine qua non for national development,” he stated. The Chairman, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Aminu Abdulkadir, in his comments, urged the DPR to ensure that there’s sufficient sensitisation on the new initiative. He said: “We represent 87 per cent of operators in the downstream sector. I urge DPR to ensure that there is sufficient sensitisation about this launch in the depots because some of them are not enlightened. I believe that this innovation will bring development to the downstream sector.”