The season five of the Virtual Investment Simulator (VIS) which Investment One Financial Services initiated to stir the interest of Nigerians in investing in the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), will kick off on February 22.
The Virtual Investment Simulator is a flexible online gaming portal/competition designed to help participants understand the dynamics of the Nigerian Equities Market in a simulated environment. The VIS provides a gaming environment where individuals can interact with the Nigerian Stock Exchange in near-real time. According to a statement from the company, it provides a platform for amateur traders to improve their skills and to compete for prizes in a competition. The Emporia League is where participants will not only practice how to trade in shares but also get rewarded. “During the league, each trader begins with N10m in virtual cash and has a trading limit of N2m per day. The top three traders at the conclusion of the three-month league will have their trading accounts funded with real money as a reward,” said Francis Ilenikhena an Executive of Investment One. First prize will be rewarded with N500, 000 while the 2nd and 3rd winners get N300, 000 and N200, 000 respectively.
Registration for the season five Emporia league which starts on 8th February will close on to 21st February 2021 while the three months’ competition kicks off on February 22 to end on May 21.
Before now, four seasons of the famous VIS League have been conducted by Investment One, and it has produced beneficiaries that had their accounts funded for investment in the capital market. Francis Ilenikhena said: “Our trading simulator is fun and realistic. Learn the ropes and compete with your friends. It’s 100 percent free. All the money you’ll win or lose is virtual, it won’t cost you anything. You have nothing to lose; practice trading and stand a chance to earn prizes.” According to the company, the investment education initiative was borne out of one of its goals to become the leading promoter of investment education in Nigeria dedicated to equipping the general public in Nigeria with the requisite skills and financial expertise to make well informed investment decisions. “While we provide financial services as our core business, Investment education serves as a means of fulfilling our Corporate Social Responsibility. The project’s principal aim is to enhance the financial literacy level of the masses using cost effective means which include but is not limited to the facilitation of free financial planning seminars designed to increase participants’ awareness and appreciation about financial matters”, it added. Besides the VIS, the company has consistently engaged the investing public through the social media, free financial planning seminars, and young investors’ hub among others to achieve its objectives of spreading investment literacy among Nigerians.