Says PDP has not changed its position on zoning By Iyobosa Uwugiaren A leading aspirant in the 2021 Anambra State governorship election, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, has said that he is in the race to win the poll, urging his teaming supporters across the state to remain steadfast and not to be distracted by an orchestrated campaign to sway their support for him. The political economist stated this in a press statement in Abuja, signed by Mr. Achilleus-Chud Uchegbu for the Dikeora Media Office of his campaign organisation, yesterday dismissing as fake news reported outcome of the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) stakeholders’ meeting in Enugu recently. ”The attention of the Dikeora Media Office has been drawn to a misleading and fictitious news’ item on the AIF Media alleging the leading aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Anambra governorship election, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, has been disqualified from the contest on the grounds of zoning. ”The Dikeora Media Office would not have bothered to respond to such puerile fiction but for the inherent falsehood it bears”, the statement said. The statement added that the meeting of the Southeast Zonal leadership of the PDP with some stakeholders from Anambra State held at Government House Enugu, did not take any decisions on where the governorship candidate of the party in Anambra State would come from. The statement added, ”The meeting also did not alter or cancel the earlier decision of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party which insisted that the focus of the party was to win the governorship election with the best candidate irrespective of his/her zone.” The National Working Committee (NWC) of PDP had in August 2020, at a world press conference held at Wadata House and addressed by the National Publicity Secretary, Hon. Kola Ologbondiyan, stated that it would not adopt an internal policy of another party for the Anambra governorship election. The PDP NWC also insisted that it will run for the election with the candidate that has the capacity to win; while insisting that the Ndubisi Nwobu executive remains the only recognised PDP exco in Anambra State and urged all government agencies and bodies to deal with the Nwobu exco in any matter relating to PDP in Anambra State. ”At no time therefore, did the meeting of the Zonal leadership of PDP at Enugu on Monday discard the above decisions and adopt zoning. That did not happen. ”The Dikeora Media Office calls on Dr. Obiora Okonkwo’s teaming supporters across Anambra State to remain steadfast and not to be distracted by an orchestrated infantile campaign to sway their support. Dikeora is fully in the race and is now the candidate to beat,” the statement further stated.