By Emma Okonji The Nigerian Idol will reopen on March 14, 2021, on DStv and GOtv, with a grand prize of N50 million, a brand new car, in addition to other prizes. The organisers of the show, MultiChoice Nigeria, announced the Nigerian Idol season six at a virtual press conference to officially unveil plans for the season. Nigerian Idol Season 6 will premiere on March 14, with a special airing of the most memorable and entertaining moments from the auditions, which took place late last year. The main episodes will air weekly starting Sunday, March 28. Speaking during the conference, the Chief Customer Officer of MultiChoice Nigeria, Mr. Martin Mabutho said, “This season of Nigerian Idol is like nothing you have ever seen. In line with our promise to always bring the best and most entertaining content to our customers, we have put together a show that we are sure will have viewers on the edge of their seats. “Nigerian Idol is famed for producing superstars and this season, we are going even bigger, with the grand prize and with everything else. We can’t wait to show you all we have planned.” Africa Magic Channel Director, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu, said: “We believe that this season, Nigerian Idol will produce a fresh crop of talent who will be well grounded to conquer both the local and global music scene. “This year, we received over 3,600 entries and I thank our outstanding judges for painstakingly reviewing every participant to ensure we got the best from the pool of entries.” Mba-Uzoukwu further said the company would be following strict COVID-19 guidelines and would implement the necessary safety measures including social distancing, wearing of masks and daily temperature checks for the duration of the show. MultiChoice Nigeria had previously unveiled creative entrepreneur, Obi Asika, singer Seyi Shay and celebrity DJ Sose as the judges for the show. The mix of judges with distinct experiences and backgrounds is one the organisers say will bring a dynamism to the show that the contestants will undoubtedly benefit from. This season of the show will be hosted by popular media personality, IK Osakioduwa