James Sowole in Akure Three farmers were last Saturday evening allegedly killed by suspected Fulani herders at Ijugbere axis of Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State. A source said the herders shot the three farmers while they were in their farms. The Senior Special Assistant to the state Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on Agriculture, Mr. Akin Olotu, confirmed the incident in a telephone interview. Olotu said he was called by the villagers, who narrated what happened to him, describing the killing of the farmers as unfortunate. According to the governor’s aide, “Those blaming the governor for ordering illegal occupants to vacate the forest should bury their heads in shame,” adding that there may be famine in the land because farmers can no longer go to their farms. Olotu said: “Rain will soon start now and when farmers cannot go to their farms, such will be dangerous. This is the kind of things that the governor was trying to avoid when he gave the order that unregistered herders should vacate the state forest. “The governor did not say anyone should leave, he only said herders should register before they can be in the forest so that the government can identify who is operating here. “The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has written to us under the cassava programme that farmers are complaining that they cannot go to farms because herders are destroying their farms.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Tee- Leo Ikoro, said he had not been briefed on the incident. Ondo State had recorded killings of farmers allegedly by suspected herdsmen since the beginning of the enforcement of the order of the state governor directing unregistered herders, to vacate the state forest reserves. Last Thursday, suspected herders killed a farmer and a member of a vigilance group at Sanusi village also in Owo area of the state. The suspected herdsmen also burnt the operational vehicle and some motorcycles of the State Security Network (Amotekun Corps), which responded to the distress call of the villagers after killing of the two persons at Sanusi village.