By Chuks Okocha The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has hailed its former National Chairman, Mr. Abubakar Kawu Baraje; and its former National secretary and former Governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, as they mark their separate 70th birthday anniversaries. The Diocesan (Anglican) Bishop of Lagos, Dr. Humphrey Bamisebi Olumakaiye also yesterday urged Oyinlola to continue to fight for the downtrodden. In a statement by the National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said, “Our party rejoices with Alhaji Baraje, noting that his contributions to our dear fatherland confirm his sense of patriotism as a quintessential democrat and a courageous statesman.” PDP also saluted the former governor of Lagos and Osun states and former National Secretary of the party, Oyinlola, as he attains the milestone age of 70 years “Over the years, you have demonstrated an uncommon commitment in the service of our dear fatherland and humanity at large. As a soldier, state governor and party leader, you have firmly established that the essence of statesmanship is in pursuing the good and welfare of others rather than self,” PDP tells Oyinlola. Meanwhile, the Diocesan (Anglican) Bishop of Lagos, Dr. Humphrey Bamisebi Olumakaiye yesterday urged Oyinlola to continue to fight for the downtrodden. Olumakaiye, at a thanksgiving service in Lagos to celebrate the 70th birthday of the former governor, charged him to use his influence to continue to live an impactful life, working for God, setting minds on spiritual things and applying biblical wisdom. He said: “At 70, fight for the oppressed. The country is not going the way it should because we are exploiting the oppressed and that is why our fastings are being wasted. “You must work for the Lord. Set your minds on the things of the spirit. In everything you are doing now, apply biblical wisdom. “I have known you for over 20 years now and I can say that you are a man that loves God. You are a man full of experience our country needs. You still have a lot to offer our country,” the Bishop said. He said that the celebrant has different reasons to give thanks to the Lord looking at both positive and negative things that had happened to him in time past. “David would have recalled his sins and the mercies received from God. No wonder he asked what shall I pay for all these? “It is the same way the celebrant would remember his parents. Perhaps you remember some of your friends that are no more. “You have a very stable family that we can all be proud of. You may recall every journey you embarked on. You participated in the United Nations Peacekeeping in Chad and Somalia”.