By Chuks Okocha The leaders of the National consultative Front (NCFront) yesterday said that the leadership failure in the country has necessitated it’s desire to form a mega political party before the next general election. They group, better known as ‘Leaders Conscience in Nigeria’, also marshaled out comprehensive programme of action to rescue Nigeria from further drifting into criminal enterprise and failed state. The leaders in a Zoom meeting monitored in Abuja, lamented that those who are in positions of authority do not really appreciate what leadership means. They added that instead of self-sacrifice for the advancement of the common good, the leaders are enmeshed in acute narcissism, extreme self-love that leave little or no resources to cater for the welfare of the people. Eminent personalities, who signed the agenda to recsue Nigeria include, Prof. Pat Utomi; Hon Ghali Umar Na’aba; Dr Olisa Agbakoba (SAN); Dr. Hakeem Baba –Ahmed; Prof. Kingsley Moghalu; Dr. Obadiah Mailafia; Prof. Remi Sonaiya; Comrade Issa Aremu; Prof. Chidi Odinkalu; Chief Precious Elekima; Mr. Ezekiel Nya-Etok; Dr. Tanko Yunusa and Mr. Peter Ameh. They further lamented that the “Cost of governance and of winning elections and political power in Nigeria is outrageous and out of proportion with common sense. A comparison with prosperous countries reveals frightening relativities. “Public service institutions have become public disgrace in all ramifications. Nigerians go through daily pains to secure service from public institutions that have been set up to serve them. “Again, when the boundaries of official conducts cannot be ascertained, people cannot anticipate the outcomes of transactions. That is the case of Nigeria right now. “Whether it is the pensions of Retirees, Certificate of Occupancy and effectiveness of Land Registry in ensuring property rights, the report is negative and calls desperately for urgent sustainable change.” Lamenting on state of corruption, the leaders said, “Nothing is more troubling to us than the cancer of corruption, which has imperiled progress in Nigeria. Ironically, the current government rode to power on the mantra of war against corruption; yet, a simple observation of the same government today will reveal that corruption is much worse under its watch. “The rate of unemployment is alarmingly high and unacceptable. It creates the fertile ground for more criminality and insecurity as most Nigerians are already being subjected to. “The government has shown little or no vision and creativity about job creation and the little effort to provide palliatives with government jobs and conditional cash transfers have been debased and squandered by nepotism and partisanship.” The group to ends has set up strategic political cells and structures nationwide as parts of its determination to find solutions to the country’s lingering crisis. “In view of the foregoing, NCF is flagging off national working committees on select thematic challenges of the country with a view to generating outcomes as way forward for the country. “The committees will have a working brief based on terms of reference from the NCF Steering Committee. The committees include the Constitution Drafting Committee, Youth Development Committee, Committee on the Economy, Political Party Reform and policing among others. On the Constitution Drafting Committee: Dr. Olisa Agbakoba; Fr. (Dr.) George Ehusani and Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed are expected to co-chair a 60 member Constitution Drafting Committee from across the country and stakeholders’ groups to explore the provisions of the 1963 Constitution, the 1979 Constitution, the 1989 Constitution, the 1995 Constitution.