By Segun Awofadeji A Coalition under the auspices of North-east APC Youth Support Group have commended President Buhari for appointing Minister Education, Adamu Adamu and the Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETfund) Professor Suleiman Bogoro, saying that their stewardship has impacted the educational sector positively. Addressing Journalists in Bauchi, the National Coordinator of the group Comrade Aliyu Mohammed Bauchi and the Secretary, Comrade Usman Musa Biu said the administration has performed well in the sector in the past years. The APC commended the president for the allocation of funds to the educational sector in the annual budgets even as they lauded the TETfund executive secretary for the proper utilisation of the funds. “Mr Bogoro has addressed infrastructural deficits in tertiary institutions across the country. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and polytechnics only embark on strike to demand for allowances and not on infrastructures. In the past, students in some universities use to sit on windows for lectures due to lack of chairs, but now, the story has now changed as lecture halls are now adequately equipped with seats provided by TETfund. “Mr Bogoro who hails from the northeast part of the country, has never been found guilty of misappropriating funds. So we are appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari to reconsider him for another appointment after the completion of his tenure, as well as all other public officers that are doing well to enable the administration deliver good governance. “There is no doubt that one of the areas President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration recorded tremendous achievements is education. This was made possible with the collective efforts of his lieutenants manning the sector, that is, the minister of education and TETfund executive secretary, both of whom hail from the north. “APC got massive votes from youth and students because of the giants efforts from TETfund and it is our hope that the government will continue to work with technocrats for sustainable national development,” the group said.