By Bennett Oghifo The International Facility Management Association, IFMA, Nigeria Chapter has requested for partnership with the University of Lagos to enable it contribute to the training of students studying facility management. IFMA made the offer recently when its council members, led by their president, Mr. Segun Adebayo visited the Department, Estate Management, University of Lagos, according to a statement the association issued. The statement quoted Adebayo as saying, “We would want to share practical experiences with the students of the University of Lagos and also organise exchange internships.” He assured the university that this collaborative support would engender more conversations that would lead to maximising the economy of facility management. Adebayo noted that the association has taken into cognizance the need to strategically align with other institutions in the areas of capacity building; research and development; mentorship and partnership, the statement said. The current council, it said, equally aims to engage with various private and public sector stakeholders in order to play up the relevance of the profession and also to collaboratively support the build environment in a complementary way between the town and gown. The association is committed to continuous learning and development through strategic collaboration with other professional bodies and reputable organisations in order to ensure the entrenchment of best global practices in the practice of facility management in the Nigeria, Adebayo said. In her response, Head of Department, Estate Management, University of Lagos, Professor Mrs. Modupe Omirin said she loved the zeal of the council, because IFMA Nigeria Chapter is investing into the future of the country with her various activities. She also noted that the opportunities gained by the Coronavirus pandemic must not be lost because it has shown that events can be hosted virtually and that the association should not be deterred in their knowledge-sharing sessions, which has helped to improve the knowledge of members. She urged all professionals within the construction industry to always have a facility manager as part of the Integrated Design team so that they can adequately consider the proposed structure from the angle of functionality, usability and maintainability. “Facility Management Consultancy in Property Development would help influence how properties would be maintained,” she added. Present during the courtesy visit were: Ms. Iyabo Aboaba, the Doyen of IFMA Nigeria Chapter; Mrs. Bamidele Chinedu, Executive Secretary of the association and Engr. Mrs. Sherifat Adeleye, Publicity Secretary of the association. The team also included: Prof. Timothy Nubi, Professor of Estate Management and Dr. Mrs. H. Koleoso, Sub Dean, Faculty of Environmental Science. Recently, the Association and Applied Engineering Technology Institute signed a Memorandum of Understanding to deepen capacity through training, sustainability initiative and mentorship development for practitioners in the built environment in Nigeria, the statement said.