By Raheem Akingbolu Fan Milk Plc, a DANONE Company, has signed a partnership agreement with the Ogun State Government to establish a dairy farm at the Odeda Farm Institute, at Odeda Local Government Area. The partnership, an alliance with the state, is to introduce global standards in dairy farming, empower local communities and reduce unemployment rates. According to a statement, it signifies Fan Milk’s commitment to enhance the impact of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s backward integration programme and reinforce the federal government’s initiative to achieve food self-sufficiency in the country. In addition to boosting local content within the sector, the project would serve as a model, best-in-class dairy farm operated by local dairy experts to support local suppliers, housing a milk collection centre, purchasing feed locally and collecting milk from other farmers. The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, expressed satisfaction with the partnership, saying: “We welcome such future-forward partnerships, which align with our vision to create an enabling environment for Public Private Partnerships. “As Nigeria’s Gateway State, Fan Milk’s partnership gives us the opportunity to contribute quickly and easily to job creation at scale.” “It is another symbol of our plans for 2021 and signifies our strong commitment to fostering relationships that grow the state’s revenue. The government and people of Ogun State look forward to the advancements collaboration like this will bring to local farmers and communities,” Abiodun stated. The farm, which includes a training institute, is being established to up skill existing and new local dairy farmers in the adoption of farming best practices. In his response, the Chairman of Fan Milk, Mr. Olayinka Akinkugbe, said: “For us, this partnership is bigger than the CBN backward integration program. It is about the 2,000 people or more who would be impacted through this initiative and the change we seek to bring to Nigeria’s food architecture. We are investing across the value chain and ensuring the support of the long-term ambitions of the state.”