Ugo Aliogo As part of its commitment to support quality education in Lagos State, Access Bank Plc has renovated St. Peter’s Primary School, Ebute-Metta. The initiative is in line with the bank’s corporate social responsibility (CSR). Speaking during a handing over ceremony, the Group Chief Conduct and Compliance, Access Bank, Pattison Boleigha, said the bank is sensitive to needs of communities. “The bank has an employee volunteering scheme which involves carrying out CSR activities to promote public interests through social investment in community development,” he saidnoted. He stated that conduct and compliance group has been actively participating in the programme since inception as a way of giving back to the society. Boleigha, who was represented at the event by Uzoma Ujah, stated that the group’s CSR activities for 2020 focused on improving the quality of education in Lagos state, therefore they embarked on the initiative to address some of the social welfare issues by renovating St Peter Nursery/Primary School. He said the renovation work involved fixing of the aluminum roof and the ceiling, installation of 44-unit doors and 95 iron windows, replacement of the chalk board with the modern marker boards, plumbing work, provision of water tank and the toilet facilities for 12 restrooms, provision of the guiderails at the first and second floor balconies of the two wings of the building as well as painting. According to him, “The educational system in Nigeria has witnessed teaching challenges such as inadequate critical infrastructure such as classrooms, modern teaching aids, libraries, and laboratories. “The execution of the project would stimulate learning interests in the pupils who are the future leaders that will positively contribute to Nigeria and global development. We provide a good working environment to promote a deep sense of inner satisfaction to the staff of the school. “Improve the aesthetics of Ebute-Metta community where the school is located. We hope to continue collaborating with the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LASUBEB) and other government agencies to promote social welfare for community development.” In his remarks, the Executive Chairman, Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LASUBEB), Hon. Wahab Alawiye-King, noted that the renovation of the school was in line with the commitment of the state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to promote inclusive and collaborative governance. He said the administration was committed to partnering with all stakeholders to ensure its improves service delivery, adding that education transformation includes infrastructure renewal, “and this is what Access Bank has done for the government.” “We need collaboration in the sector, and the bank has assisted us, therefore we must continue to commend them. We can see the quality of work that was done here.”