By Deji Elumoye President Muhammadu Buhari and President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, have expressed sadness over the death a founding member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Minister of Information and Culture, Prince Tony Momoh. Buhari and Lawan in two separate condolence messages expressed grief at the death of the Auchi Prince. The President in a message by his spokesman, Femi Adesina expressed grief at the passing of his longtime ally, friend and political loyalist. President Buhari said Prince Momoh stood with him through thick and thin, adding: “His brand of loyalty is very rare in the politics of today. I will greatly miss him.” He recalled that as Chairman, Media and Publicity committee of the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP) Campaign Organisation in the 2003 and 2007 elections as well as Chairman of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), the late Auchi Prince contributed in no small measure to the growth and strengthening of the organizations, leading to the eventual formation of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The President commiserated with the media industry over the loss of a veteran who put in a lot to raise the bar of the profession in various ways as Editor, manager, administrator, President and Trustee of the Guild of Editors, urging them to sustain his legacies. While also condoling with the Auchi Kingdom, the government and people of Edo State on this great loss, President Buhari prayed that God will grant the departed eternal rest and comfort his family, friends and political associates in this period of grief. In his condolence message, the Senate President said he shared the grief of the family, friends and politial associates of Prince Tony Momoh, who died on Monday.
Lawan also commiserated with the government and people of Edo State and the All Progressives Congress(APC), where he was a highly respected leader, on the loss.
According to him, “Prince Momoh as a journalist made indelible contributions to the development of the noble profession in Nigeria. “As Minister of Information, Prince Momoh, through his ‘Letter to my countrymen’ series, professionally and effectively disseminated and managed public information in a manner that was unique to him. “As chairman of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), he helped nurture the party to a very strong showing at the polls within months of its formation.
Prince Momoh, the Senate President said, was also a key facilitator of the emergence of the APC in 2014. “The APC will miss this principled political leader particularly in this period that the party is repositioning as a grassroots-based political party and for improved performance of its leadership of our great country,” Lawan said. The Senate President in praying for divine comfort for his loved ones and the fortitude to bear his loss also prayed for sweet repose of his gentle soul.