Meadow Hall has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Trinity Western University (TWU), Canada and a member of the Royal Society of Canada, in an effort aimed at providing quality education to Nigerian students and raising the standard of educators. Through the partnership, Meadow Hall now offers TWU’s undergraduate programme, which commences with the U1 programme. The school will also be running TWU’s master’s programme, giving all undergraduate and postgraduate students the opportunity to learn from TWU’s intellectual and innovative faculty, whilst gaining access to its fully equipped library virtually. TWU’s U1 and master’s programmes are facilitated under the umbrella of Meadow Hall Virtual Learning (MHVL), an online learning platform that provides varying educational and personal development programmes for children and adults. MHVL is an initiative of the Meadow Hall Group, an education group founded by the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Kehinde Nwani with the vision of developing people to become change agents through the enriching opportunities provided by it’s subsidiaries.
Nwani described TWU’s blend of education and leadership as an opportunity for professionals to broaden the scope of their learning and experience in these fields.
“The U1 year is the first year of undergraduate studies at Trinity Western University. Prospective students have the opportunity to start their undergraduate degree with the U1 at Meadow Hall’s Facilitated Academic Resource (FAR) Centre in Lagos, with a learning facilitator to help guide their learning, ” she said. TWU’s Director of International Engagement for Africa, Dr. George Imbenzi said on completion of the U1, students have three unique options; to proceed to TWU’s campus in Langley, Canada, complete their undergraduate studies in Nigeria or transfer to other Canadian universities with the U1 credits acquired.” With the 18 months MA in leadership programme, Meadow Hall aims at providing the opportunity to help professional and business executives improve their leadership competence through enhanced commitment, capability and effectiveness in their specialty areas. The programme has two streams; Education and Business stream. Students in the Education stream can take advantage of courses in the business stream to enable them become Teacherpreneurs (teachers who are business minded), while also giving them the skills needed to manage or own their schools in the future. This partnership delivers a quality Canadian university education at a huge saving of more than 50 per cent of the overall cost of attendance if students were studying physically in Canada and affords them learning experiences that ensure a provincially, nationally and internationally recognised undergraduate and post-graduate degrees. In addition, students who are admitted into the U1 or MA Leadership full time programmes are eligible for the Post-graduation Work Permit Programme (PGWPP) in Canada. According to the Director of Studies for Online Learning and Programmes, Mrs. Joy Oguchi, with the Meadow Hall Virtual Learning (MHVL) initiative there is no boundary to education.
“As facilitators of online learning, MHVL has as its goal making quality education and programmes accessible to students wherever they are.” She added that the TWU-Meadow Hall partnership assures the commitment to help students acquire the skills, knowledge, standards and attitude they need to shape their own lives, progress their careers and contribute to the lives of others.