Minister of Transportation, Mr. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari’s strides in the transportation sector, describing them as key to unlocking Nigeria’s economic development potentials. Amaechi said, linking different transportation infrastructure like rails to seaports and roads as is being done by the current administration will quickly drive the economy of the country upwards. The minister said this yesterday while delivering the Founders’ Day lecture at his alma mater, the University of Port Harcourt, ‘The role of Transportation in nation building.’ Amaechi said transportation is about logistics, adding that the role of transportation is to contribute to the different spheres of economic development. He argued that its absence will cripple an economy and dwarf human and economic development. “Transportation in Nigeria is a means of economic and political growth in the development of Nigeria. The impact is felt in tourism, real estate development, agriculture and others. Transportation currently contributes about 3 percent of the gross domestic product according to the Nigerian Bureau for statistics”, he said. He went down history lane to explain the importance of linking different transportation modes, stating that by 1916, the Port Harcourt port had been connected to the Coal mines in Enugu, with the objective of evacuating coal to Britain. Outlining the work being done in connecting the country for ease of transportation of products, goods and people, Amaechi said the Eastern rail line would be connected to the Western line via Karfanchan, while the Warri-Itakpe line would be connected to the same line via Abuja and onwards to Kaduna-Kano. “The Port Harcourt to Maiduguri rail line was extended to Bonny, on the way to Bonny, it’ll pass through the Ogoni axis and terminate at Onne Seaport; then from Port Harcourt to Owerri, it’ll pass through Ubima with a connecting line to the Western line at Karfanchan. The Port Harcourt-Maiduguri line is also extended to Damaturu and Gashua in Yobe State. What makes this line unique, is that you’ll have a university and an Industrial Park in Rivers State. “Hopefully the segment from Ibadan to Kano will commence this year,” he added. For Seaports, Amaechi said, “you can’t have an efficient transportation system without seaports. You must end at the seaports for importation of goods or export to boost your economy. For this reason, President Buhari has approved the construction of three major seaports. The first one is Lekki deep seaport. It’s under construction and will be completed in 2022. The second one is at Bonny, and we’ll commence construction later this year. We chose Bonny because, it is right there at the ocean. So we don’t have a problem with the draft. Even if we get 14-15 metres, we can dredge up to two – three metres more and we get 17, than to get just 10 in Port Harcourt. The deepest in Nigeria for now is the Onne seaport with 11-12 metres draft. But these days, vessels of 11metres draft have been abandoned for those of 16-17 metres. That’s the reason why we go to the high sea for transfer of cargoes to vessels with lower draft size. So these three new seaports will have the capacity to take vessels of 16-17 metres draft. The third seaport is at Warri and another one is being done by the Akwa Ibom State government with a private investor. “I believe that with these seaports and rail lines, we’ll move from 3 percent GDP contribution to between 6 and 10 per cent”, Amaechi said.