Segun Awofadeji in Gombe Gombe State has approved over N3.2 billion contract for the installation of solar street lights within the state’s metropolis and its environs.
THISDAY gathered that Phase 1 of the project is to cover 71 kilometres of roads across the state capital. Briefing newsmen on the outcome of the 11th SEC meeting held yesterday at Gombe, the State Commissioner of Information, Hon. Ibrahim Alhassan Kwami said the decision by the state government to change to the solar system as against the current generator powered streetlights was because of the ingenuity of Inuwa Yahaya-led administration in cutting cost, especially in the face of global economic meltdown occasioned by the covid-19 pandemic and other realities.
The Commissioner disclosed that the project would take three months to complete. “The cost of diesel is high; the last contract for the diesel that expired this month is N1.14 billion and the contract was entered into when the cost of diesel was not as high as this. “If we are to renew such contract now for the next one year, the cost may be twice that of the old one because of the increase in the cost of diesel, this is no longer sustainable given the present economic realities, hence the decision to revert to solar street lights which is known to be cost effective, environmentally-friendly and the current energy solution being adopted across the world,” he added. The Gombe State Commissioner of information said the company that will undertake the contract would also be responsible for maintaining the solar powered streetlights for the period of five years, adding that in the contract package, the firm will also train locals in the maintenance of the street lights going forward. However, speaking in specific terms on the solar powered street lights project, the Commissioner of works, Engr. Abubakar Bappah said the completion period for the installation of the solar street lights is three months, beginning from the day the sites are handed over to the contractors.
“The solar streetlight project is the first of two lots with the second one expected to cover 42 Kilometres dual carriage way,” he said. Also approved at the State Executive Council meeting was the augmentation of Bambam-Tula -Yiri and Bambam- Mona Kutere- Loja road contracts.
The Commissioner of Works said the augmentation follows consideration by the Inuwa Yahaya’s administration to execute project that will stand the test of time. “The augmentation for the Bambam Tula Yiri road is Six hundred and thirty seven million One hundred and Eighteen thousand Two hundred and thirty naira while that of Bambam-Mona Kutere- Loja road stands at Seven and sixteen million Four and Twenty Thousand Four hundred and ninety six naira Ninety seven kobo”. Commenting on the decision, the Commissioner of Environment, Dr. Hussaina Goje said for the project to be successfully implemented, the government had to undertake a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) in line with the world Bank guideline.