By Segun James A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and representative of civil society on the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the alleged killing of #EndSARS protesters by soldiers at the Lekki tollgate, Mr. Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, has revealed that the camera found by the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, has not been handed over to the panel. Fashola, had on Sunday, October 25, 2020, while conducting a tour of the toll plaza alongside governors and ministers from the South-West, discovered a camera at the toll plaza five days after the alleged shooting of #EndSARS protesters by soldiers. The minister gave the camera to the Lagos State governor, who promised to hand it over to the panel. While handing over the camera to Sanwo-Olu after picking it up with the aid of a handkerchief, Fashola had said, “I think this will help with the ongoing investigations into the shootings at the Lekki Toll Gate. It requires forensic analysis and could be used in the investigations to unravel the mystery surrounding the shootings at the Toll Gate, I believe.” But Adeboruwa lamented that over three months after the discovery of the camera, it was yet to be handed over to the panel as promised. He said this while stating reasons for his dissenting opinion on an application by Lekki Concession Company to take over toll plazas one and two for insurance claims and to maintain security threat. “The Lagos State Government has been summoned by the Panel and it is yet to appear, to offer its own testimony of the accounts of 20th October, 2020. The Governor of Lagos State in an open broadcast, promised to hand over a camera picked up by the Honourable Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, (SAN), to the Panel. That has not happened. The Nigerian Army made very serious allegations against the Lagos State Government during its testimony, on the incident at the Lekki Toll Plaza, which are yet to be responded to. “Allegations have been made against the company responsible for the Bill Boards at the Admiralty Toll Plaza, as to who did and why electricity was switched off on 20th October, 2020, prior to the invasion by the Army. The company is yet to appear before the Panel. “Summons have been issued for the appearance and testimony of the Chief Pathologist of Lagos State, to appear and to tender autopsy reports of deaths and CCTV footages of all mortuaries in Lagos State, from 20th October, 2020. They are yet to appear before the Panel.”