By Kayode Fasua Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has disclosed that five northern governors are holding a security meeting with him in Abeokuta today (Tuesday). The goveror said this on Monday while leading the security chiefs and some members of the State Executive Council to communities in the Yewa axis of the state where rampaging Fulani herdsmen had killed no fewer than 10 persons and maimed others. Abiodun who addressed some aggrieved villagers at Oja-Odan had a hectic time in calming them down, arising from the sudden, Sunday night attacks. He later visited Igbooro where four persons were killed and nine others injured in the night attack. Some of the areas attacked by the Fulani herdsmen are: Eggua, Ketu, Igbooro, Iselu, Agbon-Ojodu, Asa , Ibeku, Imeko and Oja-Odan. The governor, while speaking on the stakeholders’ meeting with the five northern governors, did not mention the governors, but said those governors were of Fulani extraction that had people living in the state. The governor also said all the concerned groups and people would be represented with a view to charting a way forward on the insecurity situation in the state . ‘I have called a stakeholders’ meeting tomorrow (today) with my colleague-governors who are Fulani that have people here. “Five governors are coming to Abeokuta from northern states. We will call some of you to the meetings and discuss the matter,” he told journalists. On the security measures being put in place, the governor said he would hand over some security vehicles and motorcycles to the special task force he set up for Yewaland, also today. He said “The delegation I sent told me what they saw. They said a lot of things happened and as they were giving the report of what they saw, we heard that another attack happened. “I called for security meeting this morning. And before yesterday , I have set up a task force and bought new vehicles and motorcycles for Yewaland security . “The task force consists of Police, Soldiers , Cvil Defence Corps and hunters to help us in terms of security in your area . “Tomorrow by God’s grace, all the new vehicles and motorcycles will be released . The task force will be stationed here , they will not only patrol your areas and go back to Abeokuta .” He, however, promised to foot the hospital bills of those who were injured by the herdsmen. He also pledged to help those who lost their property during the attack by cushioning the effect of the loss . The governor said he had asked the Commissioner for Special Duties to collate the list of those that were affected in the attacks. Meanwhile , villagers in some of the affected areas in Yewaland , where Fulani herdmen attacked and killed some farmers have deserted their homes . Some of the affected villages include Agbon-Ojodu, Moro ,Asa and Ibeku in Yewa-North Local Government area of the state. Earlier , the Eselu of Iseluland ,Oba Akintunde Akinyemi, had said the people of Ketuland were demanding that the governor give an order for the eviction of Fulani herdsmen in the land . Oba Akinyemi who spoke at Oja-Odan during the visit of the governor to the area , said the entire people of Ketuland were requesting that the Fulani herdsmen leave the area . He said, “The herdsmen are killing our people seriously. They are killing our people in Ketuland, they raped our women, they destroyed our farmlands. “They have killed a lot of our people in Ketu, Igbooro, Iselu, Agbon-Ojodu, Asa , Ibeku and Oja-Odan “Within five days, the Fulani have killed five persons in Igbooro , three in Asa, making eight . “Your Excellency , our people have regards for you and they know that you will be just . “I know that if not for the governor, if we ask our people to face the Fulani, there will be war. Due to this , we want the Paramount ruler in Yewa to support us while we want the governor to give an order that Fulani should not come to Ketuland again .” The Olu of Ilaro and Paramount ruler of Yewaland, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, in his remarks said his people in Yewaland were no longer sleeping with their eyes closed, owing to the herdsmen attacks. He, however, appealed to the people to be patient with the governor, saying security measures had been put in place to end the incessant killings in Yewaland.