• Says women have potential to achieve their goals Rebecca Ejifoma Ambassador of the Students Wing of PDP Anambra State and aspirant for the PDP Southeast Zonal Women Leader, Juliet Anaeme, has congratulated Dr Ngozi Okonjo Iweala as the first African and first woman to emerge as Director General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). As issued in a press release on Tuesday, Anaeme said Okonjo-Iweala’s victory shows that women can attain any height they want to and achieve every goal they set. She described Iweala as an Amazon, whose achievements as the finance minister and supervising minister of the economy in the Goodluck Jonathan’s administration cannot be forgotten or equaled. “Dr Okonjo-Iweala is role model to women out there,” Anaeme noted, “She has proven that even when the odds were not in her favour, she was determined; she never gave up. Today she has laid a foundation that many other women and upcoming generations will follow.” The aspirant further commended the US for throwing her weight behind Okonjo-Iweala. She, therefore, appealed to the new DG WTO to replicate the success of her office as finance minister in WTO while urging her to use her position for the welfare of Africans and other developing countries. In the words of Anaeme, she implored Okonjo-Iweala to use her office to encourage girl child education, and women participation in politics across Nigeria, and Africa among others.
[17/02, 2:43 pm] +234 816 282 0123: ASO South East Commiserates with Anambra Government, Ohanaeze over Death of Onwudiwe to COVID The South East chapter of the Atiku support organisation (ASO) has commisserated with the Anambra State Government, Ohanaeze, and Aka Ikenga following the death of Barrister Oscar Onwudiwe to COVID-19. In a statement signed by the South East Zonal Coordinator, Alozie Alozie, the group prayed that God would grant his family the fortitude to bear the loss. Further eulogising the late icon, Alozie described Oscar as a man of truth and principles, who stood up for the Igbos and Nigerians. “Nigeria, not just the Igbos, have lost a rare gem. He was a man who was ready to give his life for the truth,” he added. “It is so bad we lost such a great man to COVID. Alozie further called on Nigerians to adhere to the rules of social distancing and to always wear a mask. Alozie further enjoined the public on adhering to safety precautions, adding that COVID is real and as such, “It is the duty of every Nigerian to be careful and adhere to the guidelines put out by the World health organisation and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).