By Kasim Sumaina The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on Tuesday hinted that few days after three cocaine cartels were bursted at the Murtala Mohammed Internationl Airport (MMIA) Lagos, another trafficker, Ukaegbu Bright Onyekachi, has been nabbed with 3.30 kilograms of the illicit drug. The suspect it disclosed was arrested on Monday, February 1 during the inward clearance of passengers on Ethiopian airline at the E Arrival Hall of the MMIA. The Commander MMIA command of the NDLEA, Mr Ahmadu Garba, stated that Ukaegbu Onyekachi arrived Nigeria on board Ethiopian Airways from São Paulo, Brazil via Addis Ababa. “The hard drug was cleverly concealed in T-shirts stickers but the suspect could not escape the eagle eyes of our detectives”, Garba stated. This is even as operatives of the FCT Command of the agency have raided a number of drug spots in Abuja, where 14 persons including three men in military uniform suspected to be fake soldiers, were arrested and different quantities of cocaine, codeine, rohypnols and Indian hemp were recovered. A statement made available to Journalist in Abuja by the Principal Staff Officer, Public Affairs, NDLEA, Jonah Achema, noted that, “In the FCT, some of the drug spots raided at the weekend include Wuse Zone 4 and 5; Wuse by Banex plaza and Garki by Torabora. “Also raised are Area 1 by Gwagwalada park; Dagwa village and Abattoir in Karu. The 14 persons arrested are being investigated in connection with the recovery of 34.8kg cannabis sativa. “Also seized were other quantities of Cocaine, Codeine and Rohypnols. Three of the arrested persons who were in military camouflage are still being profiled but are suspected to be fake soldiers.” Meanwhile, the Nasarawa Command of the agency has uncovered a cannabis warehouse in Lafia, the Nasarawa state capital where 45 bags of the illegal drug weighing 474kg were recovered. According to the state commander of the NDLEA, Justice Arinze, the recovery was the biggest singular seizure since the inception of the command in 1999. He said: “We are grateful to our new Chairman, Gen. Marwa who made the feat possible for us by empowering us with the needed logistics to go all out. He said the command was continuing with its operation Hana Kwaya, in collaboration with other security agencies to raid drug joints and markets. He added that the first phase of the operation had covered some local government areas in the state with the arrest of 54 suspects comprising 12 dealers and 42 drug users, while a total of 604 kilogramms of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances have been seized. Meanwhile, the NDLEA Chairman, Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd) has commended the men and officers of the MMIA, FCT and Nasarawa commands of the agency for taking the war to the doorsteps of traffickers and peddlers of illicit drugs in their areas. “I have told the commanders in my meeting with them that our maxim is offensive action and I’m glad they are following up on the strategies outlined for them”, the NDLEA statement quoted him as saying. Watch video