Crisis sponsors will be identified, punished, says Buhari
Four northern govs visit Abiodun, back modern ranching
 Go after criminal herdsmen, Afenifere, ACF, Ohanaeze, PANDEF tell NSA, others By Deji Elumoye in Abuja, Christopher Isiguzo in Enugu, John Shiklam in Kaduna, Dipo Laleye in Minna and Kayode Fasua in Abeokuta A former military Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd), has called on Nigerians to stop trading blame and focus on ending the current ethnic clashes, which he described as unfortunate. Abdulsalami at a press conference yesterday in Minna, capital of Niger State, expressed concern that the clashes are adding to the challenges of insurgency, banditry and armed robbery in the country. However, President Muhammadu Buhari reiterated his commitment to working for the continued unity of Nigeria and vowed that crisis sponsors will soon be identified and punished in accordance with the law. And in continuation of their efforts to de-escalate the tension arising from the recent ethnic conflict in the South-west, four northern governors yesterday joined their Ondo State counterpart, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, to visit their Ogun State colleague, Prince Dapo Abiodun, during which they called on the federal government to transform herders into modern cattle merchants by investing in ranching. Also, the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere; the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF); the apex Igbo socio-political group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo; and the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) have urged the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno, and other security chiefs to go after criminal herdsmen terrorising the country rather than tour the country in search of an elusive peace. Abdulsalami, who is the Chairman of the National Peace Committee, called for calm in these difficult times. He said: “As if the continued insurgency in the country, the kidnap and armed robbery is not cup full, the recent happenings in some parts of the country of ethnic attacks are unfortunate and are adding to the problems. “These times demand that we all join hands together to resolve our challenges so as to keep our country united. We do not have the luxury of trading blame.” He appealed to Nigerians who have borne so much pain and suffering to remain resi