Ejiofor Alike The Lagos State Police Command has arrested 15 suspected armed robbers in the state, including a female suspect. The Rapid Response Squad of the state police command arrested the 15 suspects, including 13 traffic armed robbers in operations carried out between January 29 and 30. According to a statement signed by the state Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the suspects were arrested in Oshodi and Ketu areas of the state. Adejobi disclosed in the statement that the arrest is part of the Command’s efforts at weeding up criminals suspected to be attacking motorists and commuters in traffic. “The suspects were picked up by the Rapid Response Squad’s Commander, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi’s led team between 10.45pm on Friday and 4:30am on Saturday at Oshodi Oke and Alausa respectively. “The suspects that were picked up in Oshodi included Tinuola Ajibola, m, 18, Adeniji Farouk, m, 16, Wale Ajetunmobi, m, 24, Chibueze Okasa, m, 17, Taiwo Goodluck, m, 36, Sodiq Timileyin, m, 23, Salami Alex, m, 21, Umar Abubakar, m, 20, Micheal Iroaja, m, 36, Abba Mohammed, m, 20, and Mukaila Fasepe, m, 43. While the other two suspects, Saviour Nwoko, 21, and Ayomide David, 19, were caught in the act by the team, at different locations, with a machete and stolen phones in Alausa Lagos “David, alias “Sharwama”, one of the suspects and ex-convict, has disclosed to the police that his gang use to operate along Olowopopo Road, Ojodu and Ojota.” In another development, two suspected armed robbers were arrested by police operatives attached to Meiran Division of the Command. The suspects were arrested at Ikola Ipaja Bridge at 11.20pm on January 27, 2021. The suspects, Oluwadamilare Folami, m, 22, and Desire Chukwu, f, 21, were stopped on a motorbike before they were arrested and searched. One locally-made pistol, charms and weed suspected to be Indian hemp were recovered from them. All 15 suspects have been ordered by the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, to be transferred to State CID Panti, Yaba for proper investigation.