Raheem Akingbolu Novartis Nigeria has reaffirmed its commitment to sustain the existing tempo and remain a great workplace for employees. The assurance was made to commemorate the recent announcement by Top Employer Institute (TEI) that the firm has been certified as a top employer for a third consecutive year. The ceremony took place recently to celebrate top employers across the globe for their commitment to creating a better world of work. The TEI program was said to have certified and recognised more than 1600 Top Employers in 119 countries across and regions, on nine key areas ranging from People Strategy, Work Force Planning, Talent Acquisition, Leadership Development, Well-being, Diversity & Inclusion and more. The Top Employer certification is an independent audit that benchmarks each organisation’s performance against other global employers. Head of Human Resources for Novartis English West Africa, Stephen Chiazor, said: Novartis is honoured to have won this recognition. The award is evidence of Novartis’s commitment to reimagine our workplace. Cultural transformation is, for us, a key business objective and we are committed to ensure our people can fully apply their talent and energy. “The award inspires us to continually add value not only to the lives of patients with our medicines, but to ensure that we are inspiring our associates to achieve their potential.” Meanwhile, the Cluster Head for Novartis English West Africa, Adeyele Adenika, also stated that; “I am proud that this is a testament to our journey of building an Inspired, Curious, and Unbossed culture, resulting in an empowering work environment. It is also important to note that the 2021 Top Employer recognition was on the back of an extremely challenging year due to the COVID-19 pandemic that affected how we work and how we engage internally and externally. Despite this, our employees demonstrated remarkable resilience and agility, underpinned by our commitment to putting people first” he said.