Tragedy has struck Liverpool goalkeeper Alisson Becker after his father drowned in a lake near his holiday home in southern Brazil. Jose Becker, 57, had been swimming at a dam on his property when the accident happened on Wednesday afternoon, Doroteo Machado Filho, a police inspector in the town of Lavras do Sul said. The accident happened around 5pm and no foul play has been suspected. The Fire Department of Cacapava do Sul were called to the scene before news emerged out of the region later that evening that Mr Becker’s body had been located. Mr Becker, who was a real estate broker, was reportedly found at around midnight by a friend and employee of the family estate in the city of Bage, where Mr Becker lived with his wife Magali. Alisson, 28, joined Liverpool in 2018 from Roma and was voted FIFA Best Men’s Goalkeeper in 2019. His older brother Muriel, 34, also plays professional football and is a goalkeeper for Fluminense, who are fifth in the Brazilian top division. Internacional, another top-level Brazilian club who both brothers have previously played for, tweeted their condolences. “It is with great sadness that we received the news of Jose Agostinho Becker’s death, the father of our ex-goalkeepers Alisson and Muriel,” the club said. Fluminense posted on social media: “The Fluminense Football Club deeply regrets the death of Jose Agostinho Becker, father of goalkeepers Muriel and Alisson,” tweeted Fluminense. “We wish all friends and family all the strength. In 2018, Alisson spoke about the impact his father had on him in becoming a footballer. “I have a family of goalkeepers,” he said. “My father played for his work team, my mother played handball in school, and my grandfather played in amateur football. “And after all this, came my brother playing and then I started to like it, too.” Since then Alisson has established himself as arguably the best goalkeeper in the world. He has been a source of consistency at Liverpool since joining in a £67million transfer from Italian club Roma – a then-world record for a goalkeeper. Upon his arrival, the Reds finished second in the Premier League but won the Champions League in 2018-19 – beating domestic rivals Tottenham 2-0 in the final. The 28-year-old backed that up last season by winning the Premier League with the Anfield outfit – their first top-flight title in 30 years – as well as the FIFA Club World Cup. Alisson is also Brazil’s first-choice goalkeeper and was part of their triumphant Copa America team in 2019. To date he’s won 44 caps for his country.