By Alex Enumah A new political movement, the New Nigeria Group (NNG) has commenced efforts to ensure that only people with integrity, vision and commitment towards the Nigerian project are elected into office come 2023. Convener of the group, Mazi Sam Ohuabubwa made the disclosure while unveiling his plan to run for the number one political office in the country during the next general elections. Ohuabunwa who stated that he has a divine calling regarding the emancipation of Nigeria, added that he is ready to work with like minded citizens to realize his ambition. “As you may have heard, I have received very strong motivation to offer myself for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at the 2023 elections. After careful consideration and prayers since July 2019, I am persuaded that I truly have a mandate to play an active role in helping to bring Nigeria to its manifest destiny. “My mission is to lead a team of like-minded citizens to provide an enlightened, visionary and committed leadership that will drive Nigeria to attain a first world status and create a new Nigeria where all the citizens live in harmony, are treated equally and equitably to achieve peace and prosperity in a nation that works for all”, he said. Ohuabunwa added that the group is currently building a political movement – The NEW NIGERIA GROUP (NNG) to rally Nigerians around its vision and mission and to persuade them that a New Nigeria, “the Nigeria of our dreams is possible and feasible in our lifetime, as many (young and old) have lost hope”. He disclosed that they will use the NNG to negotiate partnership with a major Nigerian political party or the “third force” that will provide them with the platform to participate in the elections. “To achieve this very important and divinely motivated mission will require enormous resources. As an ally and a patriot who has contributed and continues to contribute to the political, economic and social emancipation of our nation, I am honoured to invite you to be my partner in this pursuit”, he said.