By Laleye Dipo The Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, has said that the ongoing revalidation and membership registration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is not designed to favour or work against anyone. Bello, who is the National Chairman of the APC Revalidation and Membership Registration Committee, also assured members of the party that the programme will be carried out as transparently as possible. Speaking after revalidating his membership in his Alkali Mustapha Unit Central ward in Kontagora on Saturday, Bello said: “In a democratic process, people should express their views but what I know is that this process is not to favour or work against anyone.” The governor, who said the National Executive Council of the party approved the exercise, noted that the conduct “can therefore not be illegal as some people are saying”. He said the programme has become expedient in view of the fact that it was in 2014 that the last exercise was carried out, “since then, many people have left the party. From 2014 to date, a lot of youths have turned 18 and we have to accommodate them. It is a right step to take, it is the best thing to do. “We want to grow the party. People make the party, people want to join our party we cannot close our doors to the people.” Bello said President Muhammadu Buhari has directed that the party should be rebuilt from the grassroots. The governor assured the people that anywhere there is a problem as a result of the registration/revalidation exercise, his committee will resolve such problems, stressing that shortage of materials in some areas will also be addressed. In the meantime, the Special Adviser, Political Matters to the governor, Alhaji Nma Kolo has advocated continuous registration of party members by all political parties. Kolo said the party register should not be closed at anytime so that those who have attained voting age can join a political party of their choice. Speaking to newsmen, Kolo said that many people who might have been sitting on the fence, could change their minds and want to join a political party will be discouraged by keeping the register closed. Kolo said the continuous registration of party members will not only entrench democracy but also reduce rush associated with such exercise if the registration is not made permanent. The Special Adviser commended party members in the state for the peaceful and orderly manner the exercise is handled so far, urging them to continue with such attitude. The exercise was witnessed by a national officer of the party, Mr Osita Izunaso, who is charge of North-central Zone and Senator Domingo Abende who is in charge of Niger State.