Organisers of The Industry Evening Summit, a flag platform to discuss the marketing and marketing communications industry in Nigeria, have concluded plan to host the second edition of the event. The event, which is scheduled to hold in Lagos on April 2, 2021, has as its theme: “Addressing the Balance Question in the Management of Corporate Social Investment Portfolio During Crisis.” To present paper on the theme is the managing director of Frutta Juice & Service Limited, Dr. Onyekachi Onubogu.
According to a statement, Onubogu is an accomplished Senior Business Leader/ Executive Board Member with over 20 year track record of commercial and marketing success in multi-national companies across Africa. “Lined up to do justice to this thought provoking topic are the vice president, Association of Sustainability Professionals of Nigeria, (ASPN), Mrs. Ini Abimbola, manager director of TruCSR/founder SERAS Africa, Mr. Ken Egbas, director, corporate affairs & sustainability development, Unilever Ghana & Nigeria, Mrs. Oluwasoromidayo George and regional executive head, marketing & corporate communication, Standard Bank Group, Mrs. Nkiru Olumide-Ojo.
“Other panellists include executive head, corporate communication, Multichoice Nigeria, Ms. Caroline Oghuma, manager, communication & corporate affairs, Nestle Nigeria, Mrs. Victoria Uwadoka, managing director/CIO, G2M Creatives, Mr. Uduak J. Peters, chief brand & marketing officer, Union Bank Plc, Mrs. Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem, Head, Events & Sponsorship, Access Bank Plc, Mrs. Ogechi Kasie-Nwachukwu and group head, strategic brand management & communication, Polaris Bank, Mr. Nduneche Ezurike. “The chairman for the event is the Lagos State Commissioner for Information & Strategy, Hon. Gbenga Omotoso while the moderator of the session is the PR Lead, 9mobile, Ms. Chineze Amanfo,” the statement added. Speaking on the theme of the event, the convener, Goddie Ofose said the theme could not have come at the better time as the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the big corporate plans for their corporate social responsibility initiatives. “Last year, organisations Nigeria as well as elsewhere abandoned their CSR plans and kept donating to the government at all levels to fight the pandemic. This singular development caused several companies to halt the CSR activities for the year,” Ofose said. Also part of the event of the evening, is the conferment of LIFETIME awards on four distinguished professionals within the integrated marketing communication firmament in Nigeria. The four individuals are Mr. Jimi Awosika, executive vice chairman, Troyka Holdings owners of Insight Redefini, Halogen Security and Optimum Exposure; Yomi Badejo-Okusaya, chairman, CMC BCW; Tolu Ogunkoya, regional managing director, West & Central Africa, mediaReach OMD and Dr. Felix King Eiremiokhae, group managing director/CEO, Oracle Agency Group.