Tosin Clegg Organisers of the Djooky Music Awards have announced the biggest global online music contest open to all types of music and genres from artistes across the entire African region, including Nigeria, Ghana, Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Tanzania, South Africa, Namibia, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. The competition runs four times a year (winter, spring, summer and autumn) and presents a world of opportunities for emerging musicians to showcase themselves and build a future in the industry, using the Djooky app. The Djooky song competition backed by world-recognised platinum producer, Brian Malouf, kick starts this year by opening its creative doors to all artistes and songwriters, amateur and professional, from all around the world from now until February 28, 2021. While the National Voting Round takes place from February 21-23, 2021, the Continental Voting Round takes place from February 24 – 26, 2021 and the Global Voting Round, from February 27 – 28, 2021. To register and enter the competition, artistes/songwriters must be 16 years of age and above or the applicable age in their jurisdiction allowing them to take part in a song contest and use such a platform. Artistes/songwriters are advised to download the Djooky app from their app store and your original songs. Only one commercially unreleased song per artiste can be entered when uploading their songs. After accepting the terms and conditions confirming that contestant has the consent of co-writers to upload the song to the platform and nominate it to the Djooky Music Awards, artistes also need to confirm that their song is their original work and does not infringe upon the copyrights, trademarks, rights of privacy, publicity or other intellectual property or other rights of any person or entity. Full details of entry eligibility criteria and contest rules can be found on the Djooky website, djookyawards.com. This year’s judging panel includes multi-platinum US producer Brian Malouf (Michael Jackson, Queen, Pearl Jam); Grammy-nominated artiste and music director Patrice Rushen; UK Ivor Novello winning songwriter Sacha Skarbek and producer/music executive and songwriter Justin Gray, whose credits include Mariah Carey, John Legend and Avril Lavigne and Buki Sawyerr-Izeogu, Executive Director and Producer of some of the largest music productions and events in Nigeria, CEO & Founder of BukiHQ Media, one of the foremost entertainment PR firms in the country. Last season competition witnessed an overwhelming number of entries and Nigerian singer Mimigold da sound goddess took home the significant cash prize in second place. This season, Djooky organisers hope to see the awards grow until they have entries from all 193 member states of the United Nations. This year, the winner of this prestigious award will go home with the star prize of $10,000 and an all-expense-paid recording session at Capitol Recording Studios in Los Angeles, United States of America. The runner up will get a $5,000 cash prize and the third prize winner will pocket a cash prize of $2,000. With the Season Finale set to hold from February 28 – 29, 2021, the Djooky brand across Africa has become a reality set in stone with a record-breaking 566 nominations across Africa’s top three countries, including Nigeria with 218 entries, Ghana, 101 entries and 84 entries from South Africa. A total of 83 African artistes, with 3 Nigerians, make up the continental finalists. Now you can get to vote for your preferred artiste and the artistes are also at liberty to ask their fans to vote for their song to help them win the main prize.