Godwin Obaseki Icelebrate the life and times of a great son of Edo State, a quintessential gentleman, a wordsmith extra-ordinaire, a royal without par and a true, detribalized Nigerian, Prince Tony Momoh.
Prince Momoh, who was born into the revered Momoh royal house in Auchi, in Etsako West Local Government Area (LGA) of Edo State, lived an exemplary life in service to humanity and the upliftment of others. A gracious gentleman, Prince Momoh started out life a teacher. He went through teacher training college and then earned degrees in Mass Communication and Law, turning out to be one of Nigeria’s most versatile journalists, who groomed comrades and fellow lovers of knowledge committed to truth, justice and equity. From his days at the Daily Times Newspaper, to his time as Minister for Information and his foray into politics, Prince Momoh maintained a cherished, rare panache for excellence, displayed exemplary courage and passion and motivated everyone around him to be the best version of themselves. Meek and gentlemanly, his was story of care and love, for others and for country. He commanded an inspiring passion for the development of Nigeria and worked in his little corner of the world to ensure everyone had a fair short at success, in life or in the professional world. At home, Prince Momoh was a detribalized Nigerian, who loved all and welcomed them with opened arms.
His modest home in Anthony Village, Lagos, was a refuge for all. It grew to become a home for reformation for young men and women from across the country. He never met the parents of this children of Nigeria, who stayed with him, but raised them as his own, grooming them into successful, responsible Nigerians. His lovely wife, a restauranteur, opened her food court to the many children that flocked around the unassuming Prince. The restaurant served as a soup kitchen of sorts for many, where Prince Momoh picked the bill of this children. There was, in fact, no distinction between his biological children and those he sheltered. Everyone was one, ate from same plate and stayed in the same home. In his latter days, Prince Momoh became a force to reckon with among the progressives and worked assiduously to enshrine democratic ideals in Nigeria’s body polity. He was fierce and unapologetic about his convictions and spoke truth to power, no matter whose ox was gored. He would be remembered for his wit and candour, an unflinching commitment to the unity of Nigeria and a large heart, which thought ill of no one and was always welcoming to others no matter the tribe or language.
On behalf the Government and people of Edo State, I mourn the passing of our great son and noble ambassador of our people. Adieu, Prince Tony Momoh
 Godwin Obaseki, Governor, Edo State*