By Ebere Nwoji Leadway Assurance is partnering with the Kwara State Government and the Ajike Foundation in grooming and empowering operators of micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) on financial inclusion and risk management. The partnership championed by the underwriting firm through the First Lady of Kwara State, Mrs. Olufolake Abdulrazaq, will enable micro and small scale business owners in the state to build their capacity. This category of business owners includes artisans, farmers, market women and other small business groups. Speaking during the partnership signing, Abdulrazaq, commended Leadway Assurance for upskilling the state’s MSMEs on financial inclusion, security, and risk management. Abdulrazaq, who spoke virtually at the event, said: “As the world is struggling to fight off the COVID-19 pandemic, businesses are witnessing unprecedented slowdowns and shutdowns. “This, no doubt, is affecting the stability of small and medium scale enterprises. Businesses are struggling to survive due to the decline in the production volumes and harsh market conditions. “The partnership with Leadway Assurance is an outstanding and unequivocal demonstration of our commitment to acquiring world-class knowledge for the MSMEs by learning from proven market leaders in financial security, risk management and business sustenance.” Also speaking, the Executive Director Leadway Assurance General business Adebola Adegbayi, said considering the risks involved in operating a business, every business owner should make insurance a critical part of his financial planning. Adegbayi added: “We have always taken financial inclusion for small business owners as a priority at Leadway Assurance. We are convinced that financial education is critical to building business successes through smarter enterprise decision, wealth creation, risk identification, management, and protection. “No matter how small your business is, there is a need to register with an insurance company.” Adegbayi, reiterated her company’s commitment to Nigerian entrepreneurs by equipping them with the tools necessary to identifying and mitigate risks.