The world never envisaged a virtual church where physical attendance will be dwindling however this is the reality staring us all in the face today. As we cope with the scourge of the COVID-19 pandemic in today’s ever-changing world, the church of God, its superintendents and congregation, need to take advantage of technology to ensure that the successful spread of the gospel is never derailed or cut short. In line with this narrative, Sawtrax Inc. an information technology (IT) firm has made spreading the gospel, member engagement, church management and outreach, easier for various churches in the world with the introduction and deployment of a highly encrypted mobile app known as iGospel. iGospel is afree next-generation secured video, voice and messaging platform with innovative e-commerce possibilities where messages are available for members to purchase seamlessly”. Simply put, it’s a game changing mobile application through which members can access all the church’s content be it at home, work, or on the go. iGospel is a cloud platform that provides the church with a web portal to upload and manage all of its contents including messages, sermons, programmes etc embedded in a mobile application through which members can access the church’s content. iGospel has been recognised by the clergy and many christians as a welcome innovation in this era where christians are always on the move but still want to be in tune with their spirituality. Using iGospel a preacher and church has a one-on-one relationship with its members and is able to reach out to millions of people all over the world. Speaking on the importance of iGospel mobile app for churches and religious organisations, the Head of Partnerships Sawtrax, Susanne Gongul, said “iGospel provides a way to digitally deliver and promote sermons among other gospel contents to a wider audience worldwide. Susanne added. It comes with a High-Definition Frequency, which makes free secured and uninterrupted clear audio and video calls among members. The two-way communication channel is enabled for both public and private usage; the public channels are for everyone while the private channel is for only paid subscribers. Multi department segmentation is possible with the app, it has the ability to create multiple channels for the different departments and channels. This includes group creation which the administrators to engage private groups without interference.” Preachers and heads of religious organisations can now reach out to their members individually via instant messaging. The instant messaging and file sharing feature allows sharing of different kinds of files to friends and family for free. iGospel uses the phone’s internet connection to send messages, which enables users to save the usual SMS fees. The iGospel app comes with an incredible built-in feature that helps reduce data consumption while using it. The iGospel mobile app can be downloaded from Google and Apple Stores.