Akwa United’s right-back, Etim Mathew, has expressed confidence that the Promise Keepers have the wherewithal to conquer Enyimba International when the two teams will face each other on NPFL Match-day 12 today in Aba. Elsewhere in the Nigerian topflight, wounded Rivers United FC will take on Warri Wolves in another rescheduled Match-day 12 fixture at the Delta State Polytechnic Sports complex in Ozoro. The Pride of Rivers lost their bid to remain in continental campaign to fellow NPFL side Enyimba in a 5-4 shootout at the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium in Port Harcourt last Sunday. Now they are back to throw everything into winning a silverware in the domestic scene. Back to Akwa United, Etim, an NPFL winner with Enugu Rangers in 2016, believes the quality of players and the technical depth in Akwa United are added advantages for them to win any match they play irrespective of the venue. “We are gradually beginning to get it right despite our slow start and the confidence in and around our team at the moment is such that we can comfortably take on any team in the NPFL and come out with a positive result. “We have played against some tough teams already in the league this season and we have gotten some good results. I don’t think Enyimba will be different. “The truth is, we are not going to Aba for sight seeing, as a team, we are going there to fight for all three points and we believe it’s very possible,” he noted. Etim, who is a key player in Coach Boboye’s team, insists he and his team-mates are determined to put in their best to ensure the Promise Keepers achieve their aim this season. “We have a vibrant technical crew and some of the best players in this league. Sometimes, we challenge ourselves as players to be more consistent and ready to give one hundred percent in every match we play. “I know that our match with Enyimba will be an interesting one and I’m optimistic that we will have a positive result in Aba on Wednesday. Etim is banking on the fact that the game will be broadcast live on television for fair officiating. “Since the beginning of the season, teams have picked vital points away from home and that is a pointer that the NPFL is fast developing and having NPFL games back on television shows that we are making progress because many people are now watching our league, so as players, we have to take advantage of this development and give our best anytime we play”. Akwa United are sixth on the NPFL log with 18 points after 11 matches while Enyimba are second on the log with 21 points from nine matches comprising seven wins and two defeats. Ndifreke Effiong who has scored seven of Akwa United’s 12 goals this season is among the 20 players selected by Coach Kennedy Boboye for the crucial game. The match will be played behind closed doors and under strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The match is to be broadcast live via NPFL. TV and on Nigeria Television Authority, NTA.