•Begs for Pastor Yakuru’s release from Boko Haram Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency in the security sector of the country as a result of the deteriorating security situation in the country. Consequently, CAN has also asked the president to immediately order the military to rescue Pastor Bulud Yakuru of EYN Church of the Brethren from the Boko Haram terrorists before it is too late.
Pastor Yakuru was reportedly abducted on December 24, 2020, when the terrorists attacked Pemi Village in Borno State and killed no fewer than seven people. The Pastor, who has been in the custody of the Abubakar Shekau-led faction of Boko Haram since December last year was on Wednesday, February 24, reportedly given a one-week ultimatum for their demands to be met by government or Pastor Yakuru will be killed.
This, however, forced CAN to conclude that it was high time the Buhari-led government declared a state of emergency in the security sector of the country due to the raging security crisis. A statement by CAN President, Rev Dr. Samson Ayokunle, stated that although it was not aware of the demand placed for the pastor’s release, it appealed to the President, the military and the Borno State government to ensure that Pastor Yakuru was not murdered like the district chairman of the Church of the Brethren in Nigeria (EYN) and CAN Chairman of Michika Local Government in Adamawa State, Rev Lawan Andimi. “The leadership of CAN believes that the freedom of Pastor Yakuru is a litmus test for the new Service Chiefs and the whole world is watching whether they will live up to the expectations of or not. “If the then American President, Donald Trump could put his acts together from far away America and ordered his military to rescue one kidnapped American in Nigeria, then our President has no excuse or whatsoever not to act decisively and rescue Pastor Yakuru,” it said.
CAN also the reason the government would leave the citizens of this country at the mercy of insurgents, bandits and kidnappers, saying: “What then is the essence of having a government in place? “The most recent case of kidnapping is that of about three hundred schoolgirls in Kangere, Zamfara State. This serial incident of mass abduction of our school children and citizens is shocking beyond words and must be stopped by this government immediately. “The ease with which the bandits and insurgents are carrying out their nefarious activities is totally embarrassing and a cause for concern. When will this government give the citizens of this country cause to breathe a sigh of relief with assurance that their lives and property are safe and secured? “Mr. President, where shall we go from here? Have the criminals taken over where there is legitimate government? Though we are praying earnestly continuously, we know faith without hard work from the side of government is vain,” said CAN, who added that although the president might be doing his best, it was not enough going by the current negative outcomes. “The bitter truth is that, no place is presently safe in this country. We, once again, advise that all public secondary schools – boarding or otherwise – in the Northern part of the country should be closed henceforth until the security situation improves.
“The Police should be directed to recruit more personnel with a view to assigning effective and well armed standby force to every secondary school in the North and other parts of the country,” it said.