The continuous occurrence of pipeline explosions in Lagos State is becoming worrisome and requires a full-fledged plan from the Lagos State government and other stakeholders to curb this danger that has continued to put many lives at risk. Over time, we’ve witnessed series of pipeline explosions that have caused the loss of lives, properties, businesses, and a host of other valuables. These occurrences leave one to wonder if those at the helm place value on humanity. Statistics have it that at least 60 fire outbreaks were recorded in Nigeria between January and December last year. Lagos State is said to have recorded the majority of these fire outbreaks, which is estimated to be around 54% of the total incident in Nigeria. Similarly, it will be noticed that these explosions are common to the Lagos mainland as it has become a major problem to the inhabitants of the area who continue to battle incessant fire outbreaks. Last year, major areas on the mainland like Ifako-Ijaye, Egbe-Idimu, Magboro, FESTAC, Ipaja, Abule-Ado, and Abule-Egba were all affected by pipeline explosions. One of the most tragic incidents is the explosion at a gas processing plant in Abule Ado area of Lagos State in March 2020, which claimed the lives of over 20 persons, and leaving several individuals with fire burns. At least 50 buildings were wrecked as a result of the fire as well as a girls’ boarding school known as Bethlehem Girl’s College. In the same way, Abule-Egba was hit by a similar outbreak that left over 150 residents displaced, which also led to the death of five persons, and the burning of 71 shops, 30 houses, a church auditorium, and 39 vehicles. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) while reacting to the incident claimed the fire outbreak was caused by a truck that collided with some gas cylinders stacked in a gas processing plant near the corporation’s pipeline. The Lagos State government in response to the incident set up a N2 billion relief fund to support the survivors. This was a good gesture by the state government, but how long will they continue to set up funds to cater for victims when the real problem is still unsolved? Not long after the Abule-Egba and Abule-Ado incidents, more pipeline explosions occurred in Lagos State and these had continued to put the lives of people on the mainland at risk. It is high time all hands are on deck to proffer long-lasting solutions to avoid any occurrence of these pipeline explosions. Rarely is there any case of pipeline fire outbreak on the island. The Lagos State should start placing priority on the Lagos mainland as they are they contribute largely to the Lagos State economy. The majority of the economic hub is situated on the mainland and it is the responsibility of the Lagos State government to ensure that families, businesses, schools, churches, mosques, and most especially children are safe from these hazards. Segun Michael Adeyemi, sagunadeyemi@gmail.com