Vanessa Obioha The uncertainty that accompanied last year spurred by the unexpected coronavirus pandemic continues this year as the country faces a COVID-19 resurgence higher than earlier recorded in 2020. The spike in the number of infections began in December 2020 and is yet to slow down, placing more constraints on businesses relying on a decline of individuals affected by the virus. Already affected by the global recession caused by COVID-19 last year, Nigeria will heavily depend on the quick availability of vaccines and efforts by the government to keep the virus at bay for survival. Experts foresee a GDP growth to rebound by 1.7% to 2.0%, buoyed by increased economic activity and improvement in the oil market. For most Nigerians who have hoped the unprecedented pandemic will be dumped in the annals of history this year, the impact of COVID-19 is still adversely felt even as they fear a looming lockdown. Although the federal government is yet to announce such plans due to the weakness of the economy to sustain another shutdown. However, stringent rules have been put in place. Wearing face masks is now mandatory, congregational activities have also been discouraged, limiting the number of attendees to 50 except in religious gatherings which are expected to carry only 50 per cent capacity. For leading media and entertainment company MultiChoice Nigeria — which contributed N1.2 billion to the Federal Government last year in its fight against coronavirus, including a N400 million financing to creative industry professionals — encouraging Nigerians to stay at home and stay connected to its terrestrial Pay-TV platform, GOtv and enjoy the array of content available is paramount. “We need to urge more Nigerians to have in mind that as long as we don’t practice social distancing, the current situation the country is facing might not end as quickly as we want it to. That is why we, MultiChoice Nigeria, have put plans in place to ensure everyone gets access to great content they can enjoy and stay connected to all our platforms at an affordable rate.” urged the company’s Chief Customer Officer, Martin Mabutho. One of the ways the company intends to do this is by offering irresistible promotional campaigns for consumers. On January 14, 2021, they began the ‘Max for Less’ campaign where subscribers on lower packages are advised to upgrade to a higher one to enjoy more quality and entertainment content. For instance, GOtv subscribers on the Jolli and Jinja packages upgrade to the GOtv Max package to experience a range of quality content. Instead of paying N3,600 for GOtv Max, they will get a discounted price of N2,999. Though it’s a limited time offer, new subscribers stand an opportunity to enjoy the offer as well. GOtv Max which comes with over 75 channels, including five music channels, six sports channels, four movie channels and other genre channels, brings the best quality programming such as ‘My Identity’, ‘Sistas’, ‘Til Death Do Us Part’ and much more as well as kid’s entertainment such as ‘The Amazing World Of Gumball’ and ‘Craig of the creek’, making family entertainment complete and wholesome. Also, they have access to English Football League (EFL), Major League Soccer (MLS), Scottish Premier Football League (SPFL), Dutch Eredivisie and other popular premier American leagues on ESPN including all the action on All Elite Wrestling. Riveting local and international telenovelas await viewers on Africa Magic channels, Telemundo and ZeeWorld. The terrestrial Pay-TV is poised to deliver unrivalled entertainment and maximum experience for customers, even as the fight against coronavirus pandemic continues.