Okon Bassey in Uyo The Akwa Ibom State government has called on the United States of America and other investors to partner the state in the development of the Ibom Deep Seaport project. The state governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, made the call when the Chief of Political and Economic Affairs of the United States Consulate in Nigeria, Mr. Brandon Hudspeth visited him at Uyo. The governor who was represented by his Deputy, Mr. Moses Ekpo, explained that, the seaport was conceptualised to become the flagship of the shipping industry in the continent. The seaport, the governor said is strategically located and endowed with a natural draught and direct access to all parts of the world including the United States. The United States, Emmanuel said have enjoyed a robust bilateral relationship with Nigeria since the nation’s independence, stressing that, huge investment opportunities abound in the state for American investors to take advantage. He told the US Envoy that, the peaceful ambience which the state offers, was the best in Nigeria for investors, urging the United States government to take advantage of the enormous business opportunities, especially in the Ibom Deep Seaport project that has gotten the federal government’s approval. Emmanuel noted that, Exxon Mobil as an American company was enjoying the state’s favourable ambience to carry out its operations in the state. He urged the Consulate to encourage the oil major to relocate its headquarters to the state as a way of encouraging other international oil companies (IOCs). The governor maintained that the state government has invested heavily in infrastructure that are compliant to global standards such as the 21-storey intelligent building. According to the governor, his administration remains people-oriented with strategic programmes meant to promote the well-being of the citizenry, thanking the US government for the initiative to visit the state, and promised its cooperation to enable the U.S. contribute its quota in this direction. He used the opportunity to laud the American government for endorsing the candidature of Dr. Okonjo-Iwela for the position of the Director General of the World Trade Organisation, WTO. Earlier, the Chief of Political and Economic Affairs of the US Consulate in Nigeria, Mr. Brandon Hudspeth said he was in the state as part of his tour of the Niger Delta states, saying it was also a show of his country’s interest in the region. He said, the visit was intended to strengthen the relationship between the states in the region and his country.