Malami calls for greater collaboration between police, commission By Kingsley Nwezeh The Chairman, Police Service Commission (PSC) and retired Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Musiliu Smith, has attributed the #EndSARS protests to the misconduct of officers of the Nigeria Police Force. This is coming as the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), yesterday called for a harmonious working relationship between the Nigeria Police and the PSC. Speaking yesterday at a retreat organised in Abuja by the IG and his police management team, Smith decried the level of misconduct in the police force saying his office was always inundated with complaints from Nigerians. “We are always having a lot of complaints from the members of the public against police officers. I believe that #EndSARS resulted from serious misconduct of some of our personnel. “I want to advise that we review the arrangements we are making for investigating such cases. Let’s ensure that investigations are thoroughly conducted and whoever is the police officer that has been indicted will be punished according to the law. If we are doing that, some of the public complaints will go down.” Smith, commended the IG for organising the retreat, which he said would enable the PSC and the police leadership rub minds and chart new ways of moving the police institution forward. He noted that “though the functions of the duo are distinct, they are closely related, hence, the need for maximum collaboration and symbolic kind of relationship that would ultimately lead to the success of both given mandates”. On his part, Malami called for a harmonious working relationship between Nigerian Police and the PSC. The two organisations had issues over constitutional roles on the recruitment of police constables which ended up in court. A statement issued by Force PRO and Commissioner of Police (CP), Frank Mba, said the justice minister “called for sustained and harmonious working relationship between the Nigeria Police and the Police Service Commission, which he notes can translate to effective and beneficial outcomes. “He assured that the Ministry of Justice is open to assist with any role that can help advance the efficient service delivery of the police”. In his speech, the IG, Mohammed Adamu, reaffirmed the commitment of the force to enhancing internal discipline and professionalism among its workforce, noting that personnel discipline and professionalism were key to national security. The retreat, the IG further noted, provided an ample opportunity for the leadership of the force to amongst other things, engage and strengthen the bond between the Police and the Police Service Commission as part of efforts directed at addressing complex interplays between police personnel and the members of the public and generally improve police service delivery in the country. The IG also noted that “a resilient police institution and a strong PSC bonded together by the overriding interest of our internal security, will evolve from the retreat”.