Governments of Bayelsa and Delta states have tasked a new online news platform, the Niger Delta Connect (NDC), on objectivity and fairness, promising to support the success of the medium dedicated to reporting events in the Niger Delta region. Solalina Media launched the NDC on February 1, 2021 with a mission to give the Niger Delta region better coverage and exclusive reportage focusing on developmental journalism. The Delta State Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Ehiedu Aniagwu, described the mission of NDC as noble, saying it would boost the operations of businesses and governments in the region. He appealed to the platform’s management to maintain objectivity and fairness in reporting issues concerning the region. The commissioner said the Delta State Government would support the news platform to report the giant strides of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. He said: “I urge the operators of the platform to promote the interest of the region and its collective aspirations. I believe it will grow to be a hallmark of excellence in reporting events as it concerns the Niger Delta. “As a government, we will support the platform by providing the screaming achievements of the government to enable them convey the story to Deltans”. Also, the Chief Press Secretary to the Bayelsa State Governor, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, described the birthing of NDC as a welcome development, saying the medium would help to correct negative narratives about the region. He said: “The Niger Delta has suffered bad press to a large extent which has negatively impacted on the region. I am optimistic that the online platform will change the narrative and become a major force to reckon with.” He said that the platform should be used to project the image of the Niger Delta and highlight areas of common interest that would improve the development of the region. Alabrah pledged the support of the government of Bayelsa for the success of the Niger Delta Connect. The Publisher of NDC, Mr. Moses Oruaze Dickson, said the news platform would give a voice to the region and bring issues affecting the Niger Delta to limelight. He assured that the platform would provide the best form of journalism by adhering to the ethics of the profession and providing equal and fair opportunities to all.