By Raheem Akingbolu Nigeria will continue to struggle towards achieving expected growth and development if the federal government fails to address cogent issues like youths’ unrest, pandemic, restructuring and how future elections will be held without wrangling, the leadership of the African News Centre has stated. Speaking during a Webinar EndSARS Renaissance forum organized by African News Centre to review various challenges confronting Nigeria in recent time, the Executive Director, African News Centre, Mr. Ola Adebayo, took a swipe at the leadership of political parties in Nigeria, who have failed to work in line with the manifestoes of their parties. While calling on government to focus on specific issues that are working against the development of the country, Adebayo made reference to how the manifesto of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which was put together by people like Prof. Pat Tomi in 2013, to address issues related to restructuring and unity was jettisoned. He said: “The road to hell is paid with good intentions as the plans of the Buhari administration has been swept under the feet and as a result, they are cruising in the direct opposite of their plans with such level of uncertainties. They have regrettably kicked against theories that can help the socioeconomic and development of the country and therefore failed to fulfill their promises to their citizens who voted them into power. “Six years ago, the agenda in the constitution is entrenched in the list of the federalism in order to initiate actions, amend the constitution to attract the brighter and greater minds of Nigerians in diaspora. Having read the manifestoes imbibed therein, no intelligent minds would have believed the aftermath of the government and as such, there’s need to lend our voices to move the country forward.” In a deep analysis of a reflexive essay written as a result of the killings at the Lekki Tollgate, a Communication Expert, Dayo Ibitoye, explains how a leader should communicate with his followers irrespective of the situation amidst the point of hopelessness. Grace Oyenubi, a journalist, at the forum said: “Federalism is a system of a good governance and the right leaders should not be elected based on merit, religions, societal status, rather on a good leader that can deliver at its peak. “It was exciting to see the majority of Nigerians killed and harassed by hoodlums and armed forces while airing their views to the government. Out of 36 states, 19 states are in the North and they tend to act as superiors with a lion share of the constitution.” Another speaker, Rit Catonwa, a media expert, said reconciliation should be the focus of Nigerians and not restructuring at the moment which could lead to a division of the 36 states. “The call for restructuring is coined out of frustration with the system of governance and not on geographical entity though it is justifiable because there isn’t fairness and unity in the government,” he said. Unanimously, the speakers agree that there’s need to amend the constitution towards the 2023 election in the North, South, East and West with a structure of the 36 states through a Senate and House of Assembly wherein, a bill would be passed. They also recommended that vibrant leaders should be elected either young or old inasmuch as a track success to effect a greater change would be achieved.