GG World Lotto is an online lottery that is available all over the world. Currently, 17 countries are actively enjoying the numerous games offered by GG World Lotto. It is the first national online lottery of Nigeria. At the moment it is only available online and it aims at making lotto the best online entertainment. You have a variety of games to choose from. And each game is designed to increase your chances of winning. There are numerous tiers of prizes and the experience is priceless. Let us find out more about the best online lottery in Nigeria and answer your questions. 1. Is It Trustworthy?
Well, you can check for yourself. The drawings of GG World Lotto are completely transparent. The numbers are select randomly by the machine and there is no scope of manipulation and cheating. So, check yourself and get know whether it is trustworthy or not. The popular opinion is something this transparent cannot cheat you. 2. How To Play The Games?
It is pretty simple to play GG World Lotto as it is online. You don’t have to stand in line and a physical ticket. Just make your account online. Select the numbers either randomly or strategically and then buy the ticket. In Nigeria, you can play the GG World Lotto on LottoNigeria.com. As you know it offers various games on international levels. You can select any game you want and start playing. Let’s find out more about the two most popular GG World games in Nigeria. • GG World Million
In this game, you have to select a total of 7 numbers. First 5 numbers from the range 1-50 and then 2 numbers from the range 1-12. The two different segments increase your chances of winning. The added benefit is that you can place bets on multiples lines using the same ticket. And if more than one line wins a prize you will get multiple prizes as well. Obviously, the price will rise with every additional line you bet on. However, along with this your odds of winning and the ultimate prize will also increase. So, just seven numbers with 13 different winning combinations. • GG World Keno
Well, Keno is a little different. You can still put stakes on multiple lines maximum being 10 but the selection of numbers is different. You have to select the utmost 10 number from the range 1-70. It resembles the traditional Keno, but players consider it an improved online version. 3. What About The Drawings And Winnings?
The drawings of GG World Million takes place every Tuesday and Friday. The weekly element of them makes it even more fun. The jackpot amount is jaw-dropping. If you play the GG world Million Lotto you stand a chance of winning NGN383000000. This is the minimum winning amount of the jackpot. It could be even more if no one claims the prize in a certain draw. And this is just the jackpot. After this, there are almost 13 combinations that could make you a winner. You can play the GG World Keno 7 days a week, and the drawings takes place every 4 minutes! For a ticker for just NGN100, you can win NGN 10,000,000. It is crazy!
GG World Lotto can change your life. Thanks to the GG World Lotto you can win much more than the Golden Chance Lotto result with all lucky numbers. 4. Can I Win GG World Lotto?
Why not? GG World Lotto is available in every household because it is online. It’s easy to play and win. The rules are set practically for you. You have better chances of winning in a GG World Lotto game. All you have to do is to stay in the game. If you enjoy playing the lottery then don’t miss it. Even if you don’t win today you will have the experience and you can use it to strategize for the next. Selecting random numbers using quick pick tool is always an option. But as a smart player, you should always strategize before buying a ticket. People believe that luck can be calculated so why not take a smart move rather than a random one. There are many tipsters out there giving GG World lottery predictions in exchange for a fee. So, why not gain the experience yourself and become qualified enough to predict yourself. Now you know the reason behind the title of GG World Lotto. Its easy accessibility and the ocean of joyful games makes it more desirable. You can play it sitting at any part of the world. If you don’t want to play one fine you can play another. The chances of winning are so good that you cannot resist yourself. Try out yourself and experience