By John Shiklam The Northern States Governors Forum (NSGF) have resolved to work with the federal government, traditional and religious leaders, as well as relevant stakeholders to tackle the security challenges bedevilling the region. This was contained in a communique issued at the end of a meeting between the forum and northern traditional rulers on Thursday in Kaduna. The communique, which was signed by the Chairman of the NSGF and Governor of Plateau State, Mr. Simon Lalong, also said the forum will synergize with governors in other regions to promote harmonious and peaceful coexistence among citizens and all ethnic nationalities in the country. According to the communique, the NSGF resolved to work with the federal government to tackle the insecurity bedevilling the region and to create a conducive atmosphere for the socio-political, economic growth and development of the country. The governors also resolved to map out plans on how to address the poverty and underdevelopment in the north. The governors further resolved to put more efforts in enhancing security and safety of all schools within their domains and urged security agencies to collaborate with the various state governments towards achieving the objective. The governors resolved to address all humanitarian challenges facing
the internally displaced persons (IDPs) through the provision of enabling facilities and re-integration back to their communities. The communique said the NSGF agreed to collaborate with meaningful individuals and corporate organizations to invest in areas of agriculture and mining in order to improve the economy of the region. The forum said it will partner with traditional institutions, religious leaders and all relevant stakeholders in the entrenchment of communal harmony, peace and security of the region and the country at large. “We resolved to put more effort to enhance the security and safety of all schools within our domains. We urge security agencies to collaborate with the various state governments towards achieving this noble objective. “The forum also resolved to address all humanitarian challenges facing the internally displaced persons through provision of enabling facilities and re-integration back to their communities. “The forum further resolved to work with security agencies to address the porous intra and inter border, in order to arrest illicit and illegal movements. “The 19 governors also reiterated its commitment to include rural dwellers, especially farmers/herders, through the provision of equitable opportunities for socio-economic and political participation both in public and private sectors. “The forum called for due diligence in the execution of federal government’s economic sustainability plan, wherein N700 billion was earmarked for the project, to boost farming, animal husbandry and other agro-allied businesses,” it said.