The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, Festus Yusufu Daudu has urged the management of the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), to come up with innovations that will enhance its revenue generation. Daudu gave the charge in Abuja during the official presentation of the SERVICOM Compliant Evaluation Report on NIPOST by the National Coordinator/Chief Executive Officer, SERVICOM, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemili to the ministry. The Permanent Secretary said the ministry was aware of the challenges of NIPOST and urged the management to come up with innovative ideas that would improve revenue generation for the organisation. According to him, “We are in the era of technology, NIPOST has no excuse to complain about revenue generation. You have to devise other means of generating revenue and ensure quality service to the citizens”. He said the main objectives of every government globally was service delivery to his people, to make life better for the citizens adding that SERVICOM Compliant Evaluation report is not meant to witch hunt any agencies but a means of looking into the strengths and weaknesses of ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of the federal government. Daudu assured that the report would be looked into by the ministry with a view to analysing areas of encouragement and what the management needs to do to encourage NIPOST to do its best as well as areas of assistance from the government. In his remarks, the Chief Operating Officer, NIPOST, Mr. Yahaya Ahmadu Rufai, who represented the Postmaster-General, said they were happy with the report, which according to him, unveiled some of the challenges NIPOST is facing. He explained that NIPOST had been out of federal capital budget for over two decades, and had been sustaining its operations through internally generated revenue which is very meagre. During the report presentation, Akajemili pointed out the overall objectives of SERVICOM Compliant Evaluation report, which according to her was to ensure citizens focus in service delivery by ministries department and agencies of government. She added that her team visited 22 NIPOST locations to interact with staff and customers and identify service gaps existing in those offices and services, which she said, led to recommendations from their findings on how to improve services and ensure customers satisfaction.