By Gboyega Akinsanmi Teachers’ Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) has disclosed that only qualified teachers accredited by the Council would be allowed to engage in the teaching profession in country. TRCN, an agency of the federal government established by law to certify and accredit teachers at all levels, noted that it would dismiss all unqualified teachers in its determination to raise the standard of education in Nigeria, TRCN’s Ondo State Coordinator of TRCN, Mr. Adesina Akande, disclosed this plan in Ondo on Friday at the matriculation of postgraduate students on the Professional Diploma in Education Programme being jointly run by TRCN and Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo. Akande revealed that the Council had been working since 2006 to ensure that only professionally qualified teachers certified by TRCN will teach in all classrooms from the elementary schools to tertiary institutions across the country. “Since 2006, efforts have been made by the Council to flush out all teachers from the numerous public and private schools at all levels of education in Nigeria who are not registered with TRCN as well as those who do not have a degree in education,” Akande stated. The TRCN State Coordinator, however, revealed that the Council is partnering with institutions across the state to ensure hitch-free registration with the Council for all professionally qualified teachers, while also providing training in collaboration with teachers’ training institutions like Adeyemi College of among others for those who aspire to make a career in the teaching profession. Akande enjoined the newly matriculated students to ensure that they live up to expectations of their training aso that they will continue to enjoy the dividends of the profession, adding that the new salaries for teachers will be implemented soon. Speaking at the event, the College Provost, Dr. Samuel Akintunde urged the 93 matriculants to fulfill the oath of allegiance they have sworn to, maintaining that the College reserves the right to withdraw students found wanting in learning and character. Akintunde stated that the oath places a premium of reasonable behavior on students during their stay in the College, all-round involvement in academic activities and maintaining decency throughout their studentship. The Provost maintained that “any student found wanting in learning and character, the College reserves the right to withhold the award of a Diploma certificate to him or her,” he said. He added that as one of the rules guiding the ethics of examination in the College, a PDE student is expected to make up seventy-five (75%) attendance before he/she could be allowed to sit for the final examinations. The Provost stated that the purpose of “mounting the PDE is to produce effective human capacity towards high level man-power that will be useful in the areas of classroom teaching, planning, organisation, management and policy making at various levels of education.”