Daji Sani in Yola Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, has said for the last five years, President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has given out 280 ecological intervention projects, noting that such feats were unprecedented in the history of the country. The SGF disclosed this yesterday at the commissioning and handing over of road and storm water drainage at the Federal College of Education (FCE) Yola, Adamawa State, noting that the Buhari-led federal government has resolved to carry along all parts of Nigeria in project implementation
According to him, so far, 210 of the projects had been completed and commissioned while the rest were at various stages of completion. The road and storm water drainage inaugurated yesterday at the federal college of education were executed by the Ecological Fund Office (EFO), Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF).
“The approval of this project by Mr. President is testimony to the present administration’s promise that no part of the country will suffer any neglect” The SGF also revalidated his membership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), adding that the exercise provided a unique opportunity to rebuild the party’s strength ahead of 2023 general polls.
“This is a very important exercise, because what we are basically doing is refreshing the party by bringing in new members and also asking those that are still members to revalidate their membership, because in the course of the last six years, so many things have happened and we cannot claim that the members that started with us are still part of us. “The exercise is so to recruit new members and give old members the opportunity to revalidate their membership and any party that does not have strong membership base at the polling station level, ward level, local government level and state level cannot claim to be truly a party that is reflecting the yearnings of the people of the country. “I’m commending the leadership of the party for this exercise, because it is very important that we know the members we have, who are the new ones that we have received, who will have an opportunity of exercising their franchise of the same level with even the old members. “So, I want to commend this exercise and urge our people in Adamawa to come out in their great numbers to ensure that they register, because this will determine what will happen in 2023 and into the future we need to build a solid membership,” he said. Asked to comment on the sentiments by some high ranking officers of the party, who were of the opinion that the exercise was an illegality, Mustapha said every party has processes of how to refresh its membership and it’s very important even in religious organizations. “You find out that every year you subscribe afresh by paying some dues in our tribal unions. Every year you subscribe afresh in paying their dues, it is just a process of refreshing the membership and getting the members to be conscious of the fact that they have a responsibility to the party and that responsibility includes renewing your membership and making sure that you are a formidable party member. “Because time will come when the basics will be asked including what is your membership status. I came all the way from Abuja today. I didn’t do any work, because I needed to come here to revalidate my membership as a bonafide founding member of this party,” he said.
He recalled that at the time the party was formed, “I was the deputy national chairman of one of the legacy parties, so I’ m a founding member. “This exercise is very important. So, it is not a useless exercise. It is a credible exercise. We need to refresh our membership; we need to add more members to open up the doors for new members to come in, so as to build a formidable force that can guarantee us the victory that we desire in 2023,” Mustapha maintained.