By Laleye Dipo A former military Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, has described as “unfortunate” the recent ethnic attacks in some parts of the country, saying that the incidents is adding to the problems existing in the country. “As if the continued insurgency in the country, the kidnap and armed robbery is not cup full, the recent happenings in some parts of the country of ethnic attacks is unfortunate and is adding to the problems,” he said. Abdulsalami, who is the Chairman of the National Peace Committee, has therefore called for calm in these difficult times. Addressing newsmen in Minna on Tuesday, the former Head of State said: “These times demand that we all join hands together to resolve our challenges so as to keep our country united. We do not have the luxury of trading blame.” He appealed to Nigerians who have borne so much pain and suffering to remain resilient and patient, while also pleading with the governors to please sheathe their swords, tone down their rhetorics and take full responsibility for managing the divergent voices and frustrations within their states. Abdulsalami also pleaded with traditional institutions, religious leaders as well as development associations, NGOs to work towards mobilising Nigerians on the need to live in peace with one another. “It is true that we are all in a state of fear and collective anxiety, however, the last thing we need is for the enemy to sense a lack of unity on our part or a break in our ranks” he further said. He commended the country’s security personnel for their sacrifices and appealed to the new service chiefs and the Inspector General of Police (IG) to rise to the urgent demands of the moment by rallying their troops and designing the best strategy for ending this tragic war that has continued to consume and destroy the foundations of our dear country. “We hope that based on their field experiences in this war, they can draw up a well coordinated programme to ensure that all our resources are deployed to achieve the much needed victory in this avoidable war. “The efforts of President and Commander in Chief Muhammadu Buhari for exploring all measures and ensuring that tension is lowered. “Let us continue to pray for our country because we believe that God will continue to give us strength to overcome these difficulties,” he said.