The Ekiti State government is set to promote the future of work for youths in the state, through the preparation of youths for digital skills and prepare them for the 4th Industrial Revolution (4IR). To achieve this, the state government has launched Coding, Robotics and Artificial Intelligence (AI) education in public schools, in partnership with Coderina Education and Technology Foundation. To this effect, 12 schools from a mix of urban and underserved communities have been carefully selected by the government to participate in training on Coding, Robotics, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. The training was delivered by the team from Coderina Education and Technology Foundation, a not-for-profit organization that leverages technology as an enabler for gender, social and economic change. The organisation also donated 12 robotics kits to the 12 schools through sponsorship from partners including SAP, DOW, Ford, FIRST and the LEGO Foundation. Nominated teachers and students from the 12 selected schools came together in Ado Ekiti for two days in December 2020, to partake in the inaugural training. A community of practice was also created for the teachers to continue the learning and sharing process. The 12 schools under the pilot phase are expected to ramp up to participate in the regional FIRST LEGO League Challenge; an experiential hands-on learning program that inspires young learners to pursue a career in Science, Technology Engineering, Arts and Mathematics (STEAM). Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, speaking through the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Mr. James Owolabi, emphasised the importance of skills such as creative thinking, coding and AI as being important in the future of work as well as for entrepreneurship. The governor pledged his support for the initiative and promised to ensure that the program is scaled to all schools across the state, in order to ensure that no child is left behind. Commenting on the programme, the Commissioner for Education, Science, and Technology, Dr. (Mrs) Olabimpe Aderiye, reiterated the governor’s administration to position the state to ensure that the youths and society benefit from ICT advancement, since the future is digital and the way to go. Chairman of the Board of Coderina, Femi Niyi, hailed Ekiti State government’s resolve to equip the youth with digital skills relevant for the 21st Century knowledge economy.