Rebecca Ejifoma BET Africa’s original gripping daily drama, ISONO, has been making waves since it was launched in September, 2020 In just a few weeks, ISONO has managed to claim a spot as one of the leading multilingual scripted and English sub-titled daily dramas on the continent. ISONO airs to audiences across Africa from Monday to Thursday exclusively on BET Africa. Episodes on Pastor Abiola’s family had featured actors like Anthony Oseyemi; Christine Osifuye; and Chioma Umeala who stirred up the drama and intrigue in series. The Senior Vice President and General Manager, ViacomCBS Networks Africa, Monde Twala, said, “Africans are amongst the most passionate and dedicated storytellers and viewers of daily dramas. “The addition of Nigerian cast members is an authentic and powerful way for Africa to unite through storytelling and celebrate cross cultural diversity.” ISONO is an African story that is enriched with colourful characters that depict multiple narratives with continental appeal. With the arrival of the new family, the drama will explore family dynamics and societal issues that resonate with audiences worldwide. It is on the quest to unite Africa through story and cutting edge television. Pastor Abiola is played by international actor Anthony Oseyemi who is no stranger to the small and big screen. One of his most recent works was on the successful local film ‘The Five fingers for Marseilles’. On ISONO, he plays a wandering Nigerian Pastor, who has never managed to settle into having his own congregation. He convinces the church to send him out to Vosloorus in South Africa as a stand-in following the previous pastor’s suicide. Christine Osifuye plays Abiola’s wife, Titi, who is the heart of the family. She is an interesting character, who battles depression, just like her late son Olufemi. Christine is well known for her roles in ‘Fifty the series’ on Netflix and many more lead roles in a number of films. She is also a famous gospel singer and now a new face on ISONO. We also get introduced to Ayo, Pastor Abiola and Titi’s headstrong daughter. She is played by an up and coming actress in the industry, Chioma Umeala. She’s a rebel who constantly challenges her parents, especially when it comes to Abiola’s reliance on faith to heal all ills. It is safe to say that she will bring a lot of drama and romance to the screen. ISONO is described as a riveting drama and best in African storytelling, where dark secrets lead to deadly sins.