By Kemi Olaitan In his efforts towards finding lasting solution to the security crisis in Ibarapa area of Oyo State, the state Governor, Seyi Makinde, last Sunday night met with selected stakeholders, local government areas chairpersons and political office holders from the area, where he declared that the problems of the people are his problems. The governor, while speaking during the meeting held in Igbo Ora, said he felt the pains of the people of the area, and that the visit would enable him find lasting solutions to the lingering insecurity issues in the area. A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, said the meeting was attended by local council chairpersons and political office holders from Ibarapa Central, Ibarapa East and Ibarapa North. Makinde disclosed that the state had approved the setting up of Peace and Security Committee at the local government levels, adding that the state government would put in place other security measures to ensure peace in the area. He also disclosed that the government had directed the immediate take-off of an identity management programme to enable it to know the people in the communities. According to him, “The take-home from the interaction for me is that it is a collective problem, and I can see the commitment from everybody to find a solution to this. “And, at least, I am glad that some of the initiatives that the government is trying to put in place to stem insecurity are coming to fruition. “We will ensure that our identity management programme takes off as quickly as possible. We will also ensure the setting up of peace and security committee that is all-encompassing in all the local councils.” The governor also urged political office holders to always call the attention of the government to the happenings within their localities, saying he decided to sleep over in Ibarapa to feel the pulse of the people. Makinde said he could not sleep with his two eyes closed in Ibadan if the people of Ibarapa are unable to sleep with their too, adding that the problems of insecurity in Ibarapa need to be tackled collectively. On the enforcement of anti-grazing law, the governor said such is the area where state police would have to help out. He said: “Quite frankly, the governors are at the mercy of the federal security agencies to implement certain laws. That was why we asked for a state police. In the first instance, it is a constitutional issue, and in the absence of having that, governors in the South-west region came together and formed the Amotekun Corps as a stop gap. “Problems don’t go away completely. But you have to keep working on them; keep pushing to get to where you really want to be, and that is what we will keep doing. But the law is there, although the implementation has not been smooth, we will keep working at it.” On the deployment of additional Amotekun operatives, Makinde said: “The 200 Amotekun Corps members have been deployed. They are here, and we are also supporting them with logistics by bringing four additional operational vehicles for them.”