By Chuks Okocha The national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has met with the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, and handed over the affairs of the opposition in the lower house to him. The National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP, Tuesday met with Elumelu and other members of the PDP caucus in the House of Representatives, following last week’s lifting of the over one year suspension slammed on Elumelu and six others and asked the lawmakers to reinvigorate opposition in the green chambers The meeting presided over by the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, brings to an end the protracted minority leadership crisis in the House of Representatives. Secondus, in his words of advice, charged Elumelu and the other legislators on the platform of the party to go to the House of Representatives and speak with one strong voice in the interest of Nigerians, who he stressed, place their hope in the PDP. “The essence of this meeting is to reiterate the lifting of the suspension. Nigeria is in dire straits now and it needs a viable opposition in the House of Representatives. “You must therefore speak with one voice on all issues. The economy is collapsing and there are a lot of security challenges facing the country. This is the time Nigerians need you the most and we must rise up to defend their interest,” Secondus stated. Responding, Elumelu, on behalf of his colleagues, thanked the leadership of the party for lifting the suspension and pledged to ensure a reinvigorated opposition in the House of Representatives. Elumelu stressed that the PDP is one indivisible body, adding that with the resolution of the leadership crisis, the opposition in the green chamber has been repositioned for the task ahead. “The PDP is one indivisible party and we are now speaking with one voice and the lifting of this suspension has re-energized us for the task ahead,” he said. Speaking to newsmen after the meeting, Elumelu lauded the effort of the leadership of the party in resolving the crisis in the party’s caucus in the House of Representatives. “With the lifting of this suspension, we are one, united in the PDP family. We will do everything possible to provide the opposition that the PDP believes in, so that come 2023, we will be taking over the leadership of this country,” Elumelu stated. The minority leader also expressed concerns over the level of insecurity in the country, adding that all effort must be made to restore peace, unity and national cohesiveness in the country.