By By Hammed Shittu Naval Officers Wives Association(NOWA) has reiterated its commitment to ensure academic excellence of the students of Navy schools across the nation so that they could be a future reference point for academic attainments. The immediate past National President of the association, Dr. Theresa Ibas made this known, recently, in Kwara State, during the official commissioning a 12- room storey building built by the association for the students of the Navy Secondary School, Offa. She said the provision of modern facility in the area of good accommodation for students would no doubt enhance their academic learning and boos their academic output. She added that, there was no investment in education that is too small to boost the academic excellence of the students. Ibas said the assocation has been working round the clock to construct modern accommodation for navy schools in the country so as to boost their academic learning. According to her, “the acute shortage of accommodation at NOWA secondary school in Offa has motivated the association to embark on the construction of the facility in order to assist the students to have a good accommodation.” The former president who lauded the support of various philanthropists and other stakeholders to the association said the support has gone a long way in helping the association to achieve its numerous objectives. While calling the spirited organisations and stakeholders- to express such support to the new president of the association, Hajia Nana Gambo, Ibas said the development would assist the association to continue to contribute more towards the growth of eduction and economic development of the nation. She also lauded the people of Offa community for providing peaceful environment for the Navy Secondary and Nursery Schools in the town to thrive. She noted that, the development has continued to assist the students to learn without fear, thereby increasing their academic excellence. Earlier, the Olofa of Offa, Oba Mufutau Gbadamosi Esuoye lauded the efforts of Navy authorities in the development of the town. Represented by High Chief, Ojomu of Offa, Bayo Akinola said the people of Offa would continue to partner with stakeholders that would move the town forward and would not relent in its efforts to support the school so as to move the education of the students forward.