Chelsea boss Thomas Tuchel revealed he is such a fan of Luis Suarez that he tried to sign the Uruguayan for Paris Saint-Germain before he made the move from Barcelona to Atletico Madrid in September. Tuchel is now tasked with stopping Suarez, who has fired Los Rojiblancos to the top of LaLiga this term, when the Blues face the Spanish side in the first leg of their Champions League last-16 tie tonight. Seven games into his reign as Chelsea manager, Tuchel remains unbeaten, with the Londoners fifth in the Premier League and into the FA Cup quarterfinals. However, the German is aware he faces his biggest challenge yet against an Atletico side with bags of experience in knockout Champions League ties under Diego Simeone. “This is for sure a big test – sporting, mentally and physically,” Tuchel said on Monday. “This is a very experienced club at this level, a very experienced and tough coach to play against. “It’s clear when you play against Atletico what you get. You get hard fighting and there are many teams who have experienced this.” Atletico’s style has evolved this season, though, to accomodate a range of attacking options including Suarez, Joao Felix and Marcos Llorente. Suarez is LaLiga’s joint top goalscorer alongside former teammate and close friend Lionel Messi, suggesting that Barcelona’s desire to offload the 34-year-old was hasty. Tuchel, then PSG boss, was keen to reunite Suarez with another departed Barca superstar – Neymar – to form a frightening front three also featuring Kylian Mbappe. “There was a possibility,” Tuchel said. “We heard the rumours he was about to leave Barcelona and who cannot be interested to sign one of the best strikers in world football, in history and the present? “We tried our luck. We did not make it, he chose to stay in Spain with Atletico and again he proves his quality. “He is a natural-born striker. He has the certain mentality that only strikers have. This mentality to show his will, intensity and anger to score and score and score and is never satisfied. “What a mentality! What a player!” Suarez has a history with Chelsea. One of his three high-profile biting incidents left its mark on former Blues defender Branislav Ivanovic during Suarez’s time in England with Liverpool. Tuchel, though, insisted Chelsea have to focus on the present rather than settling old scores. “For me it’s never a good thing to look too far behind,” he said. “We look forward and we play him Tuesday night. We know about his qualities, we will be aware of it and will try to stop him from scoring.” The match will take place in Bucharest rather than Madrid due to coronavirus travel restrictions. And Tuchel accepted that an away leg at a neutral venue was an advantage to his side, with the away goals rule still in operation. “Clearly, yes it is a disadvantage for Atletico to lose their home ground,” he said. “We don’t have to talk around that.” TODAY (9pm) Atletico v Chelsea Lazio v Bayern Munich WEDNESDAY Atalanta v Real Madrid Mo’gladbach v Man City