By John Shiklam Some bandits were said to have killed three in separate attacks in Giwa and Zango-Kataf Local Government Areas of Kaduna, while three persons were left injured. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwa, in an official statement, said bandits raided some locals joints at Wawan Rafi village, Zangon Kataf Local Government Area where they killed one John Isah while injuring three other persons. The commissioner gave the names of those injured by the rampaging bandits as Fidelix Jacob, Abraham Isah and Philemon Adamu. Aruwa also said security operatives recovered two AK-47 rifles with over 40 rounds of ammunition from two persons in the area. “The security agencies added that two AK 47 rifles were recovered along with over 43 rounds of ammunition from two individuals, Malachi Akut and Gabas Gaje. They were immediately arrested for further interrogation,” he said. However, he noted with sadness that while the security operatives were on the trail of the bandits in the area, some restive youths violently protested against the arrest of the two, thereby aiding their escape. Also, an official statement by the commissioner said scores of bandits were neutralised by the Air Component of Operation Thunder Strike in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun LGAs. According to the Commissioner, scores of villagers including women and children were kidnapped by the bandits. Aruwa said the state was briefed by security operatives that bandits attacked Garawa village of Fatika District, Giwa LG, killing one Alhaji Saadu, while some citizens were kidnapped. He added that the bandits raided Doka village also of Fatika District in the same local government and abducted some residents. “In Angwan Dan Yaya village of the same district, one resident Alhaji Suleiman Audu was shot dead by armed bandits,” he added. Meanwhile, the Commissioner said while Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed concern over the latest killings in the state and commiserated with the bereaved family, the Governor was sad over the disruption of security operations by irate youths at Zango-Kataf. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed sadness at the report and prayed for the repose of the soul of the dead while wishing the injured speedy recovery. “The Governor frowned at the disruption of security operation and further directed security agencies to proceed with thorough investigations into the attack and subsequent protests. “Investigations into the incidents are in progress,” the Commissioner added. He added that air component of the military attacked bandits’ hideouts in four LGs, neutralising several bandits. He said, “Air platforms conducted armed reconnaissance over Sabon Birnin, Rikau, Kaya, Kerawa, Galadimawa, Fatika, Kidandan, Saulawa, Dogon Dawa, Ngade Allah, Kuduru, Yadi, Damari, Takama, Sabuwa, Ungwar Yako and its connecting track to Kuduru, as well as the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road all of Birnin Gwari, Chikun, Igabi and Giwa Local Government Areas. “According to the operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government, Rikau was observed to be active with bandits. The location was engaged accordingly with several bandits neutralized. “Similarly, about 3km southeast of Saulawa, bandits were seen fleeing from the air raid with herds of cattle. They were engaged and neutralised. “Ground troops at Dogon Dawa and Sabon Birni reported a calm situation. All other areas covered were likewise calm with no suspicious activity observed.” He added, “In a subsequent mission, armed reconnaissance was conducted over Kampanin Doka, Maganda, Farin Ruwa, Nachibi, Kwasakwasa, Sabon Kuyello, Sabon Layilasan and environs. “At Maganda, two bandits were engaged and neutralized as they tried to escape the notice of the fighter jet crew. “Ground troops reported bandit activities at Gatarawa, close to Rumana. While the crew did not establish clear contact, the location was strafed with probing shots into the dense vegetation. “Normal activities were observed along the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari road and other locations covered.”