By Deji Elumoye and Emmanuel Addeh Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday disclosed that Nigeria was planning to have at least 30 per cent of its total electricity supply from renewable sources, majorly solar power in the next nine years Osinbajo has also called for more effective engagements in the international community to develop a better understanding on the challenges involved in the attainment of net zero emissions as envisaged under the Paris Agreement regarding Climate Change expectations and commitments. Speaking at the inauguration of a 1.12MW Solar Hybrid Project at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, the vice president noted that the ongoing projects being executed by the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) were critical to the achievement of that objective and reduction of Nigeria’s carbon footprints. Osinbajo who noted that at least 22,000 students in the country and several faculties in several universities were already hooked on to the programme, explained that the country was working hard to curb emissions by 20 per cent immediately and 45 per cent in collaboration with its international partners. The vice president stated that the programme would expand the country’s commitment to global best practice and to cleaner energy in line with the Paris agreement on Climate Change. As the fastest growing means of energy today, he noted that renewables will be the key economic driver of growth in the nearest future. He said: “This is yet another milestone in the Energizing Education Programme (NEP). The objective of the programme is that all 37 federal universities and seven teaching hospitals will be provided with captive energy solution to ensure sustainable and reliable power for students and faculties. Meanwhile, Osinbajo has called for more effective engagements in the international community to develop a better understanding on the challenges involved in the attainment of Net Zero emissions as envisaged under the Paris Agreement regarding Climate Change expectations and commitments. Osinbajo stated this yesterday while receiving in audience British Member of Parliament and COP26 President-Designate, Mr. Alok Sharma, who is currently on a visit to Nigeria. While restating Nigeria’s support and commitment to the Agreement, he explained that the concern is what happens to oil and gas emissions like Nigeria in the transition period leading to the Net Zero emissions target. He stressed that the country is already moving towards the conversion of vehicles to cleaner gas – Compressed Natural Gas and also converting to Liquified Petroleum Gas for cooking.