Deji Elumoye in Abuja Elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, has described the late Second Republic governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, as a political titan.
In a tribute yesterday entitled “Fare Thee Well, LKJ”, the former Federal Commissioner for Information stated that Jakande succeeded in carving a pristine niche for himself, on the Nigerian social and political landscapes. He described Jakande as a notable journalist, who rose to the Position of Editor of the Tribune Group of Newspapers, in its glorious days. According to him, “in politics, he held the Lagos Constituency for his Leader and Party, in a vice-like grip, before emerging as the First Civilian, and only Second Republic Governor of Lagos State, in 1979, re-elected in 1983. “He had a great romance with the media and public, because of his populist Projects, like the massive expansion of primary and secondary classrooms, and residential facilities, generally referred to as “Jakande Schools”, and “Jakande Estates”, respectively, though derisively by political rivals. That the Schools and Estates have, with inevitable modifications, survived for more than four decades, speaks volumes for his foresight in those areas of human development indices. I was not in his political camp, but respected his calm and brave reactions to criticisms”. Pa Clark reminisced that the last time he met Jakande face-to-face about 40 years ago during the Second Republic “when my Apapa GRA, Lagos, neighbour, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, invited me over, to his residence, to ask me to join their party, UPN. Marwa Mourns
Former Military Administrator of Lagos State and Chairman/ Chief Executive of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brig. General Mohamed Buba Marwa (rtd) has commiserated with the family of a one-time governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande who died Thursday at the age of 91.
While describing his death as a big loss not only to Lagos State but the entire country, Marwa recounted how Jakande who was the state’s first civilian governor supported him when he was the Military Administrator of the state. “He was always at our events and ever willing to give advice and support at all times,” he said in a statement by his office yesterday. He said decades after Jakande served as governor, his achievements and legacies in the areas of affordable mass housing , free education, quality healthcare and infrastructure development were still visible in the state’s landscape till date.
He described his selfless service to humanity as worth emulating just as he called on the Almighty God to grant him eternal rest and comfort his family. He extended his condolences to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, his government and the people of the state. Ike Nwachukwu: He lived a Good Life
Retired General Ike Nwachukwu wrote; “To God be the glory for a life well lived. He was an icon . He showed the way for a lot of us to follow. I met him when late Alhaji Alade Odunewu (Allah De) recruited me on to the staff of The Daily Service which later became The Daily Express newspapers. Odunewu was the Editor and Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande (LKJ), the Editor-in-Chief .
“He was unassuming and accommodating. When he found time to stroll into the Newsroom, he sat by me, as he did others, to chat about our work and how to build on the reputation of the newspaper. He cared for us all. He singled me out and invited me on occasions to find out how I was doing. Our newspapers published by the Amalgated Press Limited was supportive of the Action Group – the official opposition at the time. He taught us how to be professional in the face of competing interests and philosophies. He was a good leader.
“As Governor of Lagos State he anchored his administration on providing education for all. He also embarked on building other infrastructures and interests necessary for a big State like Lagos. As Minister of Works under General Sani Abacha he again proved himself. He remained principled , frugal and selfless.
“My family and I join in mourning this legend; this unusual man ; this example in leadership, humility and professionalism; this worthy man and mentor. “God give his family succour . And grant LKJ eternal rest,” were the words of Ike Nwachukwu. His Passage, a Big Loss to Progressives Family, Says Akande
Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo.
Former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Adebisi Akande, has described the death of the first civilian governor of Lagos State, Lateef Jakande as a big loss to progressive fold.
Akande, in a condolence message yesterday, said Jakande was an adherent of Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s school of politics and ideology. He said: “The sudden passing of Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, is a big loss to the progressives political family, to Lagos State and to Nigeria as a polity.
In his lifetime, either as a journalist or as a politician, he struggled for democracy, true federalism and the enforcement of the rule of law as a major system of government in Nigeria. “As a faithful adherent of Awolowo school of politics, Alhaji Jakande, like other governors elected on the platform of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) in 1979, faithfully implemented the people oriented four cardinal programmes of Free Education at all levels, Free Health Services for all, Rural Integration and Full gainful employment of our Youths in Lagos state during his tenure.”
Akande prayed for the repose of the soul of Jakande and wish God to grant him Aljanat fidaus.
He also prayed God to grant his wife, Alhaja Abimbola, all the children and his entire family the fortitude to bear the loss of the great man. Mimiko Mourns
A former Governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, has commiserated with the Lagos State Government and the Jakande family over the demise of the first civilian governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande.
Jakande passed away on Thursday and buried yesterday at the age of 91.
In a condolence message he personally signed, Mimiko described the late elder statesman as “a successful journalist who combined journalism with elective politics.”
The former governor said late Jakande’s exemplary leadership style and pro-masses approach to governance were reference points in African politics. Mimiko said, “Baba Jakande bestrode the politics of his time with focus and clarity, social-democratic conviction and a pro masses disposition. One is reminded at his death of his remarkable feats as a governor of Lagos State such as the development of low-cost housing estates in various parts of the state, his focus on building new neighbourhood primary and secondary schools and concerted effort to make education and health free and accessible to the commoners among many other pro-people initiatives.
“I join all well-meaning Nigerians in commiserating with the Jakande family, the people and government of Lagos State and indeed all lovers of good governance on the passage of Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, first civilian governor of Lagos State, patriot, social democrat and a lover of the masses. One is sure that his place in the history of this land is assured and I enjoin the family and associates to be consoled by this inimitable fact. IPI Mourns
The International Press Institute (IPI) has expressed sadness over the death of Alhaji Lateef Jakande.
He was 91.Jakande, a former journalist and governor of the Lagos state, was a member of IPI Executive Board between 1961 and 1968, Vice chair of the Board from 1968 to 1972 and then the chair from 1972 to 1974. He was the first African to lead the IPI Board.“Lateef Kayode Jakande was a great asset to journalism and journalists’ rights in Nigeria. He set up institutions that have contributed to strengthening journalism and training younger generations to become professional journalists”, IPI Executive Director Barbara Trionfi said. “I feel very privileged to have had the opportunity to meet Mr. Jakande in person and discuss his vision for journalism in Nigeria. His contribution to IPI in different roles on the Executive Board during the early years of the network will always be valued by the membership.”Born in 1929, Jakande jumped into the field of journalism in 1943 when he began editing The Quarterly Mirror while he was still studying. He went on to embrace journalism as a full-time career when in 1949 he joined the Daily Service newspaper and a few years later moved to Nigerian Tribune. He became the editor-in-chief of The Tribune in 1956 and left in 1975 to set up his own publication business that published The Lagos N ews.Jakande became the first president of the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria. Later as the governor of Lagos, he established Radio Lagos, Lagos Television and was also instrumental in setting up the Nigeria Editors’ Guild, the National Union of Journalists’ and the National Institute of Journalism.