Hammed Shittu in Ilorin The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), has urged the Petroleum Pricing Marketing Company (PPMC) a subsidiary of Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation(NNPC) to rescind its recent decision to introduce customers’ express payment policy for the members of the association. The association said the PPMC failed to consult it members before such policy was initiated, saying it may hinder proper purchasing of fuel products at the various fuel depots in the country. Addressing reporters in Ilorin at the weekend, the Ilorin NNPC Depot Chairman Alhaji Abdullateef Kamaja, however threatened to call out its members to suspend sale of petroleum products to members of the public in the state if the decision was not rescinded by the PPMC. The association said its action was informed by the recent unfriendly policy of the PPMC.
subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). He added that, “directs marketers to provide some other prerequisites like bulk purchase agreement renewal (BPA), the procurement involves high cost and a lot of bureaucratic bottlenecks.”
Kamaja, therefore urged the PPMC to rescind the decision, noting that it is too sudden as the marketers were not consulted before hand. He said, “The implementation was also so sudden that no marketer could have made any effort to comply with NNPC guidelines. This to us, is viewed as a means to paralyse IPMAN members’ efforts to contribute to national economic development. “Before the introduction of the present policy there had been many paid tickets from marketers running to billions of Naira in the
coffers of the NNPC which were not attended to.
“Several factors like network failure and inability of marketers to have code payment militated against the former procedure.” Kamaja noted that, “It is hereby wished that the current directive is abrogated pending a proper consultation and deliberation with marketers. “It is imperative for the NNPC to always consult with the marketers before bringing up any policy as this will ensure harmonious and peaceful relationship between her and the marketers who act as the bridge to the consuming masses.
“If our herein stated suggestions are not met we may have no option than to down tools by closing down our stations.”