By Peter Uzoho The Founder and Chairman of Oilserv Group, Mr. Emeka Okwuosa has donated a road he financed the construction as well as N4 million cash gift to the All Saints Cathedral Church, Onitsha, Anambra State as part of his philanthropy. The long stretch road which connects the cathedral and the bishop court was named Sir Emeka Okwuosa Drive, in appreciation of Okwuosa’s contribution to the church and its environs including sponsoring the building of the road. The Okwuosa Drive was among the newly-completed projects at the church which were all inaugurated recently. Speaking at the occasion, the Executive Director, Sir Emeka Okwuosa Foundation, Mr. Azuka Okwuosa, said the gesture was to fulfil his principal’s avowed partnership with the church to ensure its growth. He said Okwuosa had not looked back in his philanthropic gestures in the areas of helping the less privileged in society, adding that the foundation had been engaged in exposing the unemployed to skill acquisition and provision of healthcare delivery system. The executive director who personally donated N1 million in support of his boss, stated that over the years, the foundation has been at the forefront of touching lives through provision of basic amenities to communities and scholarship schemes. He stated that the foundation would continue to be supportive of the activities of the church and play a leading role in the Anglican Communion. “We are here to appreciate this address by the Primate of the Church of Nigeria, nothing will pledge or donate here will be enough. “We are all Christians, the only message that really touched my heart here is in the area of one dying of the sake of Christ. “The foundation will continue to play a leading role particularly in the Anglican Communion, the Church of Nigeria as a whole and the body of Christ,” Okwuosa said. Last year, at the hit of the adverse effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, the foundation donated food items and medical supplies to communities in three states in the country to help cushion the effect of the pandemic-induced lockdowns. During the period, the Foundation had delivered thousands of bags of rice and tons of yam tubers to a number of communities in Rivers, Abia and Anambra States as it toured selected communities across the country with food palliatives for families impacted by the lockdown. The Oilserv Group and Sir Emeka Okwuosa Foundation had declared that it became necessary to rise in support of the government and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in the collective effort to contain the spread of the disease and also palliate the impact on Nigerians.