By Segun Awofadeji The Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi, has formally commenced running degree programme in collaboration with the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi, with the matriculation of 240 students. Speaking at the programme, held recently, the Rector of the polytechnic, Sanusi Gumau, described the matriculation as historic being the first of its kind in the institution’s 42 years academic sojourn, adding that the 240 students were admitted in its Schools of Engineering Technology and Environmental Technology. “For the first time we are witnessing our first set of degree students, spread across our Schools of Engineering Technology and Environmental Technology, in affiliation with the prestigious Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, being matriculated. “This is like a dream come true. When I assumed office as the sixth substantive rector of the polytechnic, I nursed the idea of expanding our tentacles in line with the fulfillment of our mission of achieving global competitiveness in technological training, through the provision of capable human resources, infrastructural facilities and participate in national and international linkages. “Words will always fail me in acknowledging the big-brother role the ATBU played and is still playing in fast tracking the processes leading to the successful realisation of our affiliation with it. “ He thanked the management of the ATBU, while assuring that the polytechnic will fulfill its part of the bargain. “The polytechnic is up to the task as it is equipped with adequate equipment, manpower and laboratories which are the prerequisites for training degree students. They came to this conclusion following the comments and submissions of the resource verification team from the National Universities Commission (NUC), “Gumau stressed. He said that the new Polytechnic Act empowered the institution to provide full and part-time courses of instruction and training to produce not only middle level but also high level manpower in technology, applied science, commerce, management and other fields that are relevant to the country’s development. The Vice Chancellor of ATBU, Professor Muhammad Abdulazeez, said the university had no cause to be disappointed in the collaboration with the polytechnic. Represented by Professor Mansur Malumfashi, Professor Abdulazeez declared that students matriculation was a cardinal requirement for qualifying any admitted student as a bonafide member of a university or indeed any tertiary institution. “As the tradition demands, we are here today to perform this pre requisite function in order to formally admit you into the main stream of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University community. Let me, therefore, congratulate you for this special opportunity. You can only appreciate the special chance you have when you consider the great number of qualified persons like you who are unable to secure admission and get registered into a university. He, however, warned that the university has zero tolerance for social vices and would, therefore, not hesitate to deal decisively with any students or group of students found wanting. In another development, no fewer that 63 students of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi, have benefitted from the Federal Government scholarship , aimed at ensuring that that they complete their academic programme. The Vice Chancellor, Professor Muhammadu Ahmad AbdulAzeez, who received the scholarship award letters on behalf of the students, recently, in his office at the Gubi Campus, commended the Federal Ministry of Education for the gesture, saying it would greatly help indigent students who make the list. He assured them that the university would organise an orientation seminar for the beneficiaries on how best to utilize the money given to them. The Director/Secretary of Scholarship Board, Federal Ministry of Education, Mrs Ndajiwo Asta Hamma Joda, commended the staff and students for putting in their best and urged them to do more. Joda whonspoke through the Executive officer one of the Ministry, Mallam Chiroma Mohammed, explained that 70 ATBU students won the award in the 2018 competition. “The ATBU awardees comprised undergraduate, Masters and PhD students. The examination which was computer based was conducted by the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB).”