 …Fani-Kayode: I’m a full PDP member Chuks Okocha in Abuja The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, yesterday, advised the governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to concentrate on how to solve insecurity and the collapsing economy in the country instead of moving about poaching members of other political parties. Secondus stated this when he and members of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) visited former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, in his Asokoro residence, Abuja. Meanwhile, the National Auditor of the PDP, Mai Adamu Mustapha, has disclaimed the statement alleging fraud of over N10 billion against the national chairman of the party. An online reports had alleged that there was crisis in PDP over the embezzlement of over N10 billion by the national chairman. Addressing a pressing conference when he denied the allegation, the PDP national auditor said: “To say the least, I am shocked that the routine memo can be so mischievously misrepresented in the media ostensibly to achieve a sinister purpose against our party.” However, according to the national chairman of the PDP, “On this note, we want to advise our brothers on the other side, especially some of these governors and leaders of the APC, that they should face the business of governance; jumping around and looking for critical stakeholders of our party to poach will not resolve the issue of security or economy in the country. “They are aware that security and economy in the country have broken down. They should face that business with which they were elected to do. I believe that this country belongs to all of us and we need unity to move it forward. “Our brother (Fani-Kayode) is firm with the PDP, and he is a man of his word. There is no amount of trick that will make him sway otherwise. He is firmly with PDP and we are back to business while we prepare for 2023. The most important thing is that the country must be one, and the APC government headed by Buhari should resolve the issue of insecurity.” Also speaking, Fani-Kayode reiterated his membership of the PDP. According to him, “We had a very extensive and fruitful meeting, and I want to say here and now that whatever issue that may have been, has been resolved, we are moving forward as one. I never left the PDP, I am in PDP and I am proud to be here.” “Whatever the case maybe, what is happening in the country demand that we build bridges across party, regional, ethnic and religious lines. So that we will all be glad to have a country, that we can call our own.” Also, former Minister of Special Duties in the President Goodluck Jonathan administration, Tanimu Turaki, said: “This evening, the leadership of the PDP has visited one of our leaders to have a family meeting. We have discussed like a family. “But let it be known to all and sundry that we are united, and we are together. Fani-Kayode is still in PDP, and will continue to be in PDP. Also commenting, the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, described the report of N10 billion fraud as a mere manipulation and divisive tendency as there is no truth in the allegation of fraud in the party.