By Chuks Okocha The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday derided the All Progressives Congress (APC) over its allegedly flopped membership registration drive, stating that the three weeks extension will not change the public rejection that greeted the exercise and the APC as a party. The PDP further mocked the APC for “becoming stuck with its exercise following serious confusion and violent disagreements in their fold after their plot to announce humongous fictitious figures and presenting a heavily padded membership register was busted.” According to a statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, “Our party is already aware of the confusion in the APC after genuine report from the field indicated a huge reduction in APC membership profile, given that more than half of its members across the federation refused to revalidate their membership while most regular Nigerians who they approached, responded with vehement apathy. “Nigerians are also aware of the bitter disagreement among desperate APC power mongers from Kogi, Lagos and Kaduna States over the allocation of membership figures as well as location for final compilation of APC fictitious membership inventory.” Ologbondiyan stated that the Nigeria public now knows why the APC desperately sidestepped its original membership register in the exercise as revealed by the recent outburst of the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed. He explained that it is indeed instructive that Nigerians have rejected the APC despite being lured with money in Taraba, Kogi, Imo, Kaduna and other states, stating that despite the threats in Kano State as well as attempt at night registration in Enugu and some other states, the party has been rejected by Nigerians. The PDP said: “Such rejection only goes to validate the fact that majority of Nigerians are not ready to dine on the same table with the APC, even with the longest spoons.” The opposition party, therefore, counseled the APC not to waste its time with the shenanigan of an extension as such cannot change the reality of their rejection by Nigerians. It commended Nigerians for not allowing the APC, a party that has brought so much devastation, pain and anguish and which has nothing to offer for the future of the country, to beguile and trap them again with a fraudulent membership drive. The PDP said it appreciated the overwhelming support the party has been receiving from Nigerians as it works together in the national consensus to rescue Nigeria from the ‘misrule’ of the APC by reelecting the PDP in 2023, “so as to return our country to the path of peace, national cohesion and economic prosperity.”