* To consult Soyinka, Joda, Nwabueze, Clark, Falae, others Chuks Okocha in Abuja The leadership of the National Consultative Front (NCFront) has expressed disappointment and worry over the heightening ethnic violence, civil strife and looming anarchy in the country. Also, NCFront said at the weekend that it has set up a national consensus committee to immediately work out inclusive agreements among key leaders of thought and eminent politicians in the country on how to convoke an independent citizen-driven pan-Nigerian constitutional conference of ethnic nationalities, indigenous peoples and various civil society interests in Nigeria by May 1, 2021, to prevent an impeding civil war in the country. According to a statement issued by the National Secretary of the group, Olawale Okunniye, at its last meeting, it resolved that the present government in Nigeria has become helpless, incapacitated and have lost initiative in dealing with the looming anarchy in the country, as ethnic violence, civil and religious strife in the country have now grown from worse to worst ever in the annals of Nigeria. The statement said its Rescue Nigeria agenda committee led by Dr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), Dr. Hakeem Baba Ahmed, among other has sent out invitations to all ethnic nationalities, indigenous peoples and various civil society platforms for registration and participation in the People’s National Conference by March this year. According to the statement, NcFront said it would also consult with some selected eminent statesmen, leaders of thought and state governors like Prof Wole Soyinka, Dr. Ahmed Joda, Prof. Ben Nwabueze (SAN,) Commodore Dan Suleiman, Chief Edwin Clark, Prof Ango Abdullahi, Chief Olu Falae and state governors like Samuel Otorm of Benue State, Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, Nyeson Wike of Rivers State, Babagana Zulum of Borno State, Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, Seyi Makinde of Oyo States, among others before the People’s National Conference is convoked. The group explained that the people-driven constitutional dialogue of the NCFront shall be expected to produce a draft people’s constitution for Nigeria by October 1, 2022, and shall be expected to serve as the constitutional template upon which the next elections in Nigeria shall be conducted. However, NCFront said some of the constitutional working documents already listed to guide the proposed national constitutional consultation include the 1963 Constitution, the 1979 Constitution, the 1989 constitution, the 1995 Constitution, the reports and draft constitutions of the constitutional conferences under Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan in 2005 and 2014 respectively, as well as the proposed peoples’ constitution produced by Peoples’ National Conference (PRONACO) chaired by Chief Anthony Enahoro of blessed memory. Meanwhile, the leadership of the NCFront also reaffirmed that the group final national consultative retreat, where the emergent mega political movement of the NCFront shall be launched, has now been scheduled to hold between March 29 and 31, 2021.