By Adedayo Akinwale The House of Representatives has called on the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to conduct a speedy and thorough investigation into the recent violence that erupted in Shasha, Ibadan, Oyo State, to allow for prosecution and punishment of those who instigated and participated in the killings and destruction of property. The Speaker of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, stated this at the resumed plenary on Tuesday, and also mandated the House Committees on Police Affairs and Justice to communicate the parliament’s position to the Inspector General of Police (IG). He noted that the House holds a duty to the people it serves to do the things they believe can sincerely improve their circumstances. Gbajabiamila stated: “Today, we serve that duty by calling on the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to conduct a speedy and thorough investigation into the recent violence in Oyo State, to allow for prosecution and punishment of those who instigated and participated in the killings and destruction of property.” The Speaker recalled that he spoke about the rising spate of insecurity and conflict across the country, adding that shortly after, and throughout the weekend, the warnings about the dangers facing the country manifested in Ibadan, Oyo State of Nigeria where an explosion of violence led to citizens’ death and the loss of hard-earned property. While commiserating with the government of Oyo State and families of those who lost their lives in this most unfortunate incident, he assured the people that the House would work, within the powers available to it, to prevent a recurrence not just in Oyo State, but across the country. The Speaker stressed that the House aligns with this initiative of President Muhammadu Buhari who had already announced a committee led by the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Mohammed Babagana Monguno, to hold peace and unity consultations across the country. He added: “We will constitute a working group to participate in these consultations. We will work together to examine the cultural, religious, and localised conflicts over land and history that are often at the root of internal security challenges and violent upheavals such as occurred in Oyo State last week and other parts of the country over the years.” The House, therefore, urged those who have large followership of people who listen to them and respect their voices, to be more circumspect about the information they share, the language they use, and the conversations they enable. Gbajabiamila stressed that the words used about each other could have outsized consequences on the nation’s peace and stability because words have the power to build and also to destroy. He reiterated that political leaders have a greater responsibility to keep the peace in the country. The Speaker said to do that, political leaders must commit themselves to the cause of equal justice and fair treatment for all.