Goddy Egene
FBNQuest Asset Management, a subsidiary of FBN Holdings, recently held annual general meetings(AGMs) for five mutual funds managed by the firm. The funds are: FBN Balanced Fund; FBN Smart Beta Equity Fund; FBN Eurobond Fund; FBN Bond Fund and the FBN Money Market Fund.
A review of the performance of the funds showed that The FBN Bond Fund reported the best return of 104.2 per cent over the five-year period whilst its US Dollar fund, the FBN Eurobond Fund, returned 48.43 per cent in US Dollars over the same period. The FBN Smart Beta Equity Fund also outperformed its benchmark by 38.22 per cent in the five-year period. The FBN Balanced Fund, which is one of the largest and oldest mixed-asset funds in Nigeria, having been launched in 2008, has built a track record of consistently outperforming its benchmark. It earned its investors a total return of 81.09 per cent over the five-year period. The fund provides exposure to money market securities, bonds and equities and, with a minimum investment of N50,000, offers diversification across various asset classes. This solution is suitable for investors desiring income and long-term capital growth. Commenting on the performance of the funds, the Managing Director of FBNQuest Asset Management, stated, Ike Onyia, said: “Our strong performance track record is premised on the research capabilities, insights and experience of our portfolio management and research teams. “Our mutual funds serve as useful investment options useful in formulating unique and value-adding investment strategies for various client segments. This is because our range of mutual funds cut across various asset classes including equities, bonds and money markets.” According to him, the funds remain easily accessible, as the goal is to continue to drive financial inclusion and democratise wealth creation, by supporting the financial security aspiration of investors. “Increasingly, financial markets are becoming complex to navigate and as a result, it will not be out of place for investors to actively seek the inclusion of mutual funds in their investment portfolio, which will serve as the structured gateway to such markets. Seeking the help of experienced financial planners to assist you in establishing your risk tolerance levels and advise on suitable options is highly recommended,” he stressed.