Tributes to jakande… Tributes to jakande… By Our Correspondent The Pan Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, the Afenifere, has mourned the former Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, who died yesterday at the age of 91 as a leader who served the Centre of Excellence from 1979 to 1983 without greed. The Afenifere, in a tribute entitled “Adieu Our LKJ” that was signed yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, described Jakande as the last of the LOOBO governors who faithfully implemented the Unity Party of Nigeria’s (UPN) five cardinal programmes in the second republic. The socio-cultural organisation noted that Jakande’s implementation of the free education program, especially the phasing out of the shift program in Lagos schools, was swift and revolutionary. The group further stated that “he served Lagos without greed and covetousness; he never lived in Government House or drive a government car throughout his service to the state. “Jakande developed the Lekki area and never took a plot for himself. His life was all about service. We pray that God will send more of his type our way. Good night.” Jakande Stood for Progressive Ideals, Says Fayemi The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has expressed his condolences on the death of the first elected Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, who passed on yesterday, aged 91. Fayemi, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, described Jakande as a selfless leader, statesman and a role model who utilised public service effectively for the development of the people. He described Jakande as a leader with uncommon accomplishments, one of the founding fathers of progressive politics in Nigeria and a committed Awoist who elevated service to the people above other consideration. The governor described Jakande’s death as an irreparable loss to Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole, adding that the late statesman spent his life as a committed and diligent public servant and a leader who loved his people dearly. He said the late elder statesman had immortalised himself in the hearts of the people through numerous impactful programmes and projects he executed while in office. Fayemi noted that the deceased made his mark in the media as a reporter, editor, publisher and administrator, before venturing into politics where he excelled as an “Action Governor” and left behind an unblemished record. Jakande was Best Gov in his Generation, Says Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Mr. Dapo Abiodun, yesterday described the passage of the first civilian governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, as a colossal loss to Nigeria and the journalism practice, globally. Abiodun also described him as the best governor in his generation. Jakande, died yesterday, aged 91, in Lagos. He eulogised Papa Jakande as a statesman of statesmen who “was not just a great disciple of the legendary Chief Obafemi Awolowo. He carried the Awoist traits everywhere he went.” Abiodun said that Lagos has lost a visionary leader and also noted that “the Awoists’ family has lost a great inheritor and practitioner of the great legacy” and that Nigeria’s progressive politics had been weaned of a model. A condolence message released by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Kunle Somorin, described the deceased elder statesman as a profound protégé of Papa Awo, an excellent welfarist, a democrat and diplomat of the finest pedigree “who was not found wanting in character and disposition throughout his professional and political career. “There is no way good governance will be mentioned in Nigeria without a reference to the cerebral journalist and administrator, late Alhaji Lateef Jakande. Osoba Pays Tribute to Jakande A former Governor of Ogun State and Chairman, Governing Council of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), Mr. Olusegun Osoba, has joined members of the media and political class to pay tribute to the late first civilian Governor of Lagos State and Iconic Journalist, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, who passed on yesterday at the age of 91. Osoba, in a condolence message he issued yesterday, said that Jakande would be remembered in history as a personification of the best in journalism and a political colossus, pointing out that he single-handedly founded both the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN) and the NIJ. He said the late governor of Lagos State was the first black African Chairman of the International Press Institute (IPI) made up of publishers and editors all over the world and that he was a foundation member of both the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) and the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE). Osoba described late Jakande as an astute politician who left giant footprints wherever he had the opportunity to serve at both state and federal level, adding that “as governor of Lagos State, he ran a daily political clinic where citizens consulted him on issues. In Yoruba parlance –Iroko tree as well as an elephant has fallen.” Jakande was Selfless, Honest, Faithful Leader, Says Uzodimma The Governor of Imo State, Mr. Hope Uzodimma, has bemoaned the death of the Second Republic Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, and described him as one of the honest, selfless and faithful leaders Nigeria has produced. Jakande died yesterday at the age of 91. Uzodimma, who recalled the life and times of Jakande, said that Lagos Sate in particular and Nigeria in general would sorely miss him because of his populist programmes that stood him out as governor who endeared himself to the people. He regretted that Nigeria has lost such a humble, sincere, committed progressive leader whose legacies, both tangible and intangible, are there for everyone to see. The governor of Imo State commiserated with the government and people of Lagos State over the loss and encouraged them to be consoled by the fact that Jakande, popularly called Baba Kekere, left imprints that today’s generation and generation yet unborn would point to and learn lessons from. Uzodimma also prayed God Almighty to console the widow and children of the deceased as well as all that he left behind to mourn his death. He specifically prayed God to grant the soul of Jakande a peaceful repose. Jakande was a Champion of the People, Says Ambode The immediate past Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, has expressed deep shock over the demise of the first civilian governor of the state, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande. Jakande passed on in the early hours yesterday at a ripe age of 91. “The news of the demise of Baba Jakande came to me as a rude shock. He was ripe at age, but we had hoped he would live to celebrate a centenary. “His life symbolised humility, uprightness and honesty. He was an exemplary leader, a perfect gentleman and a man of integrity and character. Lagos will forever be grateful to him for his unparalleled service. “When I was in office I always looked forward to his fatherly advice and encouragement. Apart from that was his visible presence at state events even with his health condition and was never deterred him from giving his support. This shows how he lived a very humbled and upright life throughout his sojourn here on earth”, Ambode said. He also sympathised with the entire family of Jakande and especially his wife, Alhaja Abimbola, whom he said had stood solidly by Baba throughout the period of his later years. “This is a big loss to Lagosians and Nigerians in general. But we take solace in the fact that he left huge footprints that will remain indelible in the minds of progressive Lagosians,” the former governor said. Oyetola Condoles Sanwo-Olu over Jakande’s Death The Governor of Osun State, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, has sent heartfelt condolences to the government and the people of Lagos State over the death of the first civilian governor of the state, Alhaji Lateef Jakande. Oyetola also commiserated with the entire Jakande family, friends and all those who mourn the late elder statesman and administrator in a statement that was issued yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Ismail Omipidan. He said that Jakande was a professional and respected journalist, progressive politician, distinguished public servant and an outstanding leader, who demonstrated strong concern and commitment to the welfare of the people he served. Oyetola noted that the tenure of Jakande as governor of Lagos State between 1979 and 1983 brought significant developments to the state and left remarkable legacies that made him a reference point for politicians, not only in Lagos but across the country. He said: “On behalf of the government and good people of the Osun State, I extend my heartfelt condolences to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the government and people of Lagos State over the death of the first civilian governor of the state, Alhaji Lateef Jakande. NGE Mourns its Pioneer President The Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) has mourned Jakande, its pioneer president, saying journalism has lost a pillar of the profession. In a condolence message signed by its President, Mr. Mustapha Isa, and its General Secretary, Mrs Mary Atolagbe, the guild of editors said Jakande’s death was particularly painful because it came at a period when the NGE had already lost many of its members and founding fathers, including Mallam Wada Maida, Mr. Ben Egbuna and lately, Prince Tony Momoh. NGE said it was however, consoled by the fact that Jakande left an indelible mark on the sands of time as a journalist of repute, publisher, media entrepreneur, politician, astute administrator, governor, minister, as well as a statesman and conscience of the nation. The NGE recalled with nostalgia and gratitude, the role of Jakande, not only in the empowerment of journalists, through his John West Publishing Group, but also in the establishment and sustenance of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ). “The guild also feels very proud of Jakande’s achievements as the first civilian Governor of Lagos State, especially his impactful projects in Public Housing, Education and infrastructure development, which remain a reference point for good governance till date. “The fact that the man, fondly called Baba Kekere and Arole Awolowo, recorded these achievements in just four years as the Governor of Lagos State makes it a reference point in governance in Nigeria. The Jakande Schools and the numerous Jakande Estates, spread across several Local Government Areas of Lagos State, bear a testimony to the Jakande imprints on governance in Lagos,” the statement explained House Minority Caucus Mourns Jakande The minority caucus in the House of Representatives has expressed sadness over the death of an elder statesman and the first civilian Governor of Lagos State and former Minister of Works, Alhaji Lateef Jakande. The caucus, according to a statement by the Minority Leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, on Thursday, described the death of Jakande as an irreparable national loss. The lawmakers said that Jakande was a selfless leader, who sacrificed his resources, intellect, energy and the totality of his personality toward to good and welfare of his people. The statement reads: ‘’As a state governor and later minister of the Federal Republic, Jakande was an exemplary leader, who demonstrated that leadership is not about acquisitions but service to the people. Jakande would be remembered for his exceptional commitment towards the transformation of Lagos State and the nation at large with landmark infrastructural projects in critical sectors of life. ‘’We commiserate with the Jakande family as well as the government and people of Lagos, and pray to God to give the family and the nation at large, the strength to bear this huge loss.’’ Wamakko Mourns Jakande The Senator Representing Sokoto North Senatoral District, Senator Aliyu Magatarkada Wamakko, has said that the death of former Lagos State Governor, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, has robbed Nigeria of a committed, iconic, pious and patriotic elder statesman. Wamakko, who was a former Governor of Sokoto State, in his condolence message said that the deceased played invaluable roles in the entrenchment and sustenance of democracy in Lagos State and Nigeria, in general. He stated that Lagos State had recorded tangible giant strides between 1979 and 1983, when Jakande was the governor of the state. The former governor of Sokoto State also declared that the late Jakande had lived a life worthy of emulation, which was marked by utmost sacrifices to Lagos State and Nigeria, in general. He prayed that the Almighty Allah should grant the deceased Aljannat firdaus and his family, people and government of Lagos State and Nigerians the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss. Jakande’s Death, End of an Era, Says Oyinlola A former Military Administrator of Lagos State and former Governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, has described the death of Alhaji Lateef Jakande as the end of an era. Oyinlola, in a statement he issued yesterday on the death of the first civilian governor of Lagos State, described the deceased as a true definition of a progressive politician who was honest to the values he espoused. He said: “Jakande was the father of Lagos State as we know it today. He represented the very best in humility, patriotic service and was a total Yoruba man in conduct and carriage. “When I was military administrator of Lagos State, he gave me invaluable support and priceless pieces of advice. I ran to him on a number of occasions for help in that period of political tension and crises. He had a ready solution to every problem. He was never tired of giving me his shoulders to lean on. “His death marks the definite end of an era. We have been made poorer by this death. His position among patriots will be very difficult to fill. I pray for the repose of his great soul. “I commiserate with the Jakande family, the government and people of Lagos State on the exit of this great man. Almighty God will give all of us the fortitude to bear the loss.” Arogundade Mourns Jakande The Executive Director of the International Press Centre (IPC) and former Chairman of the Lagos State Council of NUJ, Mr. Lanre Arogundade, has also expressed appreciations to Jakande for being a pillar of the contribution of the Nigerian Press to Nigeria’s development. In a statement he issued yesterday, Arogundade noted that from journalism to politics, Jakande was “such a wonderful pioneer of enduring media legacies – from being the Managing Editor of the Nigerian Tribune, to establishing the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), to the setting up of the first weekend 24/7 broadcast station in Nigeria – Lagos Weekend Television/Lagos Television as first executive Governor of Lagos State – the records speak volumes of who you were. “Of Nigeria’s bourgeois political class from the second republic to date, you were peerless. In four years and three months from October 1979 to December 1983 you simply opened up Lagos through a programme of massive public works mostly done by direct labour (facilitated by the establishment of the Lagos Bulk Purchase) that led to the construction of low and middle income estates all over the state, none of which you named after yourself nor even after your political leader, Chief Obafemi Awolowo who commissioned some of them; but which the people in recognition of your foresight gladly ‘named’ after you. Thus, till today you have Jakande in Isolo, Jakande in Agege, Jakande in Ogba ….and just everywhere,” Arogundade explained.