By Omon-Julius Onabu The Delta State Government is partnering the World Bank under the aegis of the Delta Cares Programme (DCP) as part of its efforts to cushion the effects of the COVID-19 on small scale businesses in the state. This was disclosed by the State Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, while briefing newsmen on some recent resolutions of the State Executive Council. Aniagwu explained that the Executive Secretary of the Delta State Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Agency (DSMSMEA), Mrs. Orezi Esievo, would manage the state government’s end of the deal with the World Bank. He, however, stressed that emphasis would be on assisting the micro and small scale enterprises because these categories of businesses have been worse hit by the impact of the COVI-19 pandemic than the medium scale businesses, which are relatively more stable financially. The commissioner observed that the DCP is a relief programme meant to resuscitate small and micro businesses affected by COVID-19 pandemic and improve the welfare of the people of the state in general. He also disclosed that the state government has approved comprehensive upgrading of certain health facilities in Kwale, Ughelli, Oleh, Agbor, Warri and Sapele general hospitals. Aniagwu, who was flanked by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the State Governor, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, noted that the measure was taken in furtherance of meeting the health needs of Deltans. Similarly, the sum of N16 billion has been set aside for the construction and renovation of not less than 15 roads across the state. Aniagwu stated that the road projects would include the construction of a bridge across River Ethiope in Umusume Quarters of Obiaruku in Ukwani Local Government Area as well as the renovation of internal roads in Okpara-inland in Ethiope East, the construction of Ituru Road, Elume and the construction of Deghele-Bateren Township Road in Warri South-West. Others are the construction of Oporoza Township roads in Gbaramatu and the construction of Ogbe-Ijoh internal roads in Ogbe-Ijoh, both in Warri South-West and construction of Dantinajo Gold Resort Road, Oleh, Isoko South. Others are the construction and reconstruction of Iregwa/Baleke and adjoining streets in Agbor, Ika South, the reconstruction and overlay of Owerre-Olubo/Ute-Ogbeje road, Ika North-East. The commissioner also said that the construction of the Obi-Ibabu/Ibabu Road in Ndokwa West; rehabilitation and expansion of Old Lagos By-Pass (linking Benin/Asaba Expressway to Asaba/Okpanam Road) as well as the construction of critical adjoining roads and discharge channel, Okpanam, Oshimili North, were approved by the council. Also approved are the construction of Isoko Drive/Sir Eric Obiazi Street, the Madagwa Street/Amantu Crescent, the GRA Phase 5, the Asaba in Oshimili South as well as construction of flood control system on Summit Road through Nwelih Street, St. Patrick’s College, West-End Mixed Secondary School and Uche Medua Ige Close all in Asaba, the state capital.