Emma Okonji METKA, the strategic business unit of Mytilineos S. A, an industrial manufacturing group, yesterday, delivered a 1.35MW hybrid power project at the Federal University of Petroleum Resources Effurun (FUPRE), as part of the federal government’s energising education programme. Managing Director of METKA, Evangelos Kamaris, also restated the firm’s commitment to support the energy needs of Nigeria. Speaking at the unveiling of the project, Kamaris said: “METKA believes strongly in this great country and the vision of its leadership in the power sector, championed by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari. We are here as a partner in progress, and we will continue to support this government in the development of the Nigerian electricity market until Nigeria has a stable and reliable power supply. We will always strive for constant business excellence, balancing economic growth and sustainable development.” He listed the many benefits of the project to include access to uninterrupted 24-hour power supply for over 4,000 students and teachers, and the decommissioning of several small generators—an achievement worthy of commendation to the Federal Ministry of Power and the leadership of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA). The project will, no doubt, improve effectiveness in research, teaching and learning with a remarkable impact on the quality of graduates from the university, Kamaris said. Also speaking during the launch, the Minister of State for Power, Mr. Goddy Jeddy Agba, commended METKA for its strategic partnership and the excellent execution of the project while stressing government’s commitment to enabling the development of the educational sector. He noted that the ministry’s power policy specifically targets education to ensure that all federal universities have access to reliable electricity, given the importance in catalysing economic productivity.
In his remarks, the Managing Director of REA, Ahmad Salihijo, said: “The Energising Education Programme is being implemented in three phases, funded by the Federal Government of Nigeria, the World Bank and the African Development Bank respectively.” In its first phase, the project will deliver clean and sustainable energy to nine federal universities and one university teaching hospital across six geopolitical zones, using solar hybrid and or gas-fired captive power plants.” Under the terms of reference, METKA will provide full Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) services, including power generation plants, street lighting and training centers, as well as operation and maintenance services, to the universities. In total, 7.5MW of off-grid hybrid power will be installed, incorporating the award-winning Exeron technology and the latest developments in mini-grid design. More than 100 skilled Nigerians are currently employed across all four projects sites. METKA was in February 2018, awarded the EPC contract to deliver hybrid solar plants to four Nigerian Universities, namely Bayero University, Kano; Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka; Federal University of Petroleum Resources Effurun; and Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. The FUPRE power plant is the second the firm is delivering, following the commissioning of the 7.1MW power plant in Bayero University Kano in September 2019.