By Hammed Shittu Kwara State Government yesterday raised the alarm over alleged plots by some suspected political interests to instigate violence and blame it on Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq as part of a grand conspiracy to defame him. Already, the government said that, the security agencies in the state have been alerted over the alleged plots in the state. This development according to THISDAY checks might not be unconnected with series of violence that has characterised the activities of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state following the leadership tussle in the state. Some chieftains of the APC were recently attacked at the stakeholders’ meeting of the party on the need to intimate them on the ongoing membership and revalidation exercise of the party in the state. The attack took place at the venue of the meeting held at the Banquet hall of Government House, Ilorin. Many members of the party were receiving medical attention at various hospitals in the state. Also on Monday, some chieftains of the APC from Kwara north senatorial district of the state were attacked at the stakeholders meeting at Lafiagi. Many of them were seriously injured while the vehicles belonging to the APC leaders were vandalised. The governor has since condemned the attack and urged the security agencies in the state to fish out those that behind the attack in Lafiagi town. However, speaking at a press conference yesterday, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye said that, “the plots also include sponsorship of spurious corruption allegations using sexed up official documents and innuendoes in the media to blackmail the Governor, urging members of the public and security agencies to be wary of the conspiracies”. He stated that, “The objective of the plotters is to create a false image for the governor as a promoter of violence, thereby heating up the polity in the name of politics and pitching him against the public. “The desperadoes behind this plot do not care about the safety of the ordinary people and their properties,” Ajakaye told journalists in Ilorin, the state capital. “The image they desperately seek to give the governor is contrary to the sustained policy of His Excellency not to patronise thugs or any violent elements as was the case in the recent past. “Rather than deploy the children of other people for political violence, the governor desires to build a state that gives everyone, including those long condemned to thuggery and other antisocial behaviour, a fair chance to lead decent life. Ajakaye added, “Another leg of the evil campaign is a planned and sustained media campaign of calumny woven around baseless allegations of corruption, contract inflation and the likes using doctored documents and wicked innuendoes. “All of these are targeted at the governor because he chooses to do things differently. His only sin is his principled stand that Otoge means we cannot continue to share public patrimony to a few individuals. “He is being targeted for malicious campaigns because he chooses to be his own man, and not to be another stooge who would be tossed around to do biddings other than what the public expects of him.” He noted further that, “There is also a grand plots to destabilise the state with fake news, propaganda and concocted allegations of corruption against top government officials. “The intention behind this evil campaign by certain political interests is to dent the image of the Governor whose prudence and commitment to public service are a historic high in Kwara State. “We urge members of the public to ignore the propaganda and refuse to be pitted against the people governor who is so passionate about the development of the state”.