VDT SMEmpower, the SME package of VDT Communications Limited, has been applauded for the huge value it is offering to support SMEs in the country. The SME support package popularly known as VDT SMEmpower is a premium quality internet service package at affordable cost for the SME. VDT Communications adapted the SME internet service from the same premium broadband communications services it is offering to about 90 per cent of banks and 80 per cent of insurance companies as well as prominent multinational and indigenous blue-chip companies across all sectors in Nigeria to support the SMEs at more affordable cost. The target is to enable the SMEs achieve smoother and speedier operations thereby ensuring accelerated growth and continuous business success. SMEmpower offers immense benefits to customers through the provision of superfast and reliable internet service at affordable cost nationwide. Marketing Communications Manager at VDT, Mr. David Ese, said the
service uptime is up to 99.9 per cent, adding that with SMEmpower business will enjoy ready and available high quality internet service 24/7 as it also provides proactive and superior quality customer service support 24/7/365. “Apart from affordable monthly data plans such as a whopping 35 GB unlimited data for just N10,000, 60GB for N13,500 and 120GB for N20,000, among others, the service offers free night usage; from 8pm to 6am and the possibility to rollover the unused data. Also, customers who make payment for three months get free 25GB in addition to their subscribed data bundle and those who pay for six months get free 50GB. In addition, the SMEmpower offers immense value added services such as Branded Website Creation, Web Space Hosting, Business Domain Name Registration and Unlimited Business Emails – all which are aimed at helping SMEs to achieve more speedy and hassle-free operations and at affordable cost,” Ese said. VDT Communications Limited, an ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 20000:2018 internationally certified for excellent IT service management is passionate about consistently offering the highest possible quality of service to her customers. Apart from SMEmpower, premium Enterprise MPLS Broadband Services offered by VDT include: Digital Leased Circuit, Metro Wireless Access, Metro Fibre, Corporate Internet, ATM solutions, Wifi Hotspot and Cloud services. VDT also offers 4G Lte Advanced Retail Internet Services for individual and homes. In all her services, the company strives to maintain innovative, world class service quality and best practices; satisfying and delighting her customers. SMEmpower is delighting her current customers across Nigeria. With SMEmpower, the challenges usually faced by SMEs in achieving accelerated growth have been significantly reduced. We are inviting allSMEs in Nigeria to come on board, take advantage of the immense benefits offered by SMEmpower and take their businesses to the next level.