No fewer than four persons were yesterday burnt to death, while 10 passengers were missing in a lone accident involving a commercial bus at Atoyo, inbound Ogbere along Ijebu-Ode-Benin Expressway in Ogun State. The Public Relations Officer, Ogun Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Mr. Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the incident to journalists in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. According to Akinbiyi, the accident, which occurred around 11:50 am, was caused by a brake failure and disobedience on the part of the driver of the bus. He said, “A tanker loaded with black oil inbound Benin on the Ijebu Ode-Benin expressway, spilled its content on the road due to leakage from the tanker and had to stop when the attention of the driver was called by other drivers driving in the same direction. “However, when TRACE, FRSC, and the police got to the scene, they had to divert and re-route traffic, so that inbound traffic to Benin can join the outbound traffic section. “Because it is not safe for vehicles going inbound to drive on the black oil which has already covered the length and breadth of the inbound section. “The driver of the commercial bus disobeyed the warning at the diversion point and chose to drive on the black oil. “In the process, the driver experienced a brake failure, lost control, and ran into the bush hitting a tree in the process before the vehicle was engulfed in fire, burning four passengers to death out of the 14 onboard the bus. “The whereabouts of the remaining 10 cannot be ascertained.” He added that the deceased was burnt beyond recognition, adding that the number plate of the vehicle could not be ascertained. Akinbiyi explained that the Ogbere Divisional Police Command had taken over the case, adding that the driver of the tanker loaded with the black oil already in the custody of the police. The TRACE spokesman called on drivers, particularly, commercial vehicle drivers to cooperate and show understanding with traffic managers so as to make the road safe for all road users.