David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Anambra State Government has expressed excitement towards the recent launch of United Nigeria Airlines by one of its indigenes, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo. The state government while commending the founder on the feat, described him as a worthy son of the state. He added that only a courageous and audacious entrepreneur can launch an airline anywhere in the world today, in view of the state of the industry worldwide as occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. A statement by the state commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr. Don Adinuba stated that Okonkwo deserves commendation for the bold move, while calling on him to consider making Anambra its headquarters, as the state prepares to launch the Anambra International Cargo Airport. Adinuba in the release said, “He (Okonkwo) is following in the footsteps of another great ambassador of Anambra State, Chief Allen Onyema, chairman Air Peace Airlines, who is increasing his fleet from 27 to 40 aircraft, despite the current turbulent state of the global airline business. “We are supremely confident that United Nigeria Airlines will take the aviation industry by storm, as Air Peace has done since 2013, especially with regard to the safety record, schedule integrity and quality ground and inflight services.” The release further disclosed that, “The government and people of Anambra State are happy that both United Nigeria and Air Peace are committed to the right values. While Air Peace is irrevocably committed to peace in Nigeria and elsewhere, United Nigeria Airlines is unabashedly dedicated to Nigeria’s unity and integration. “Nigeria needs peace and unity more than other things at this point in its history. Without peace and unity, no nation can achieve progress. “Chief Onyema has pledged to build a hanger at Anambra International Cargo Airport still under construction. The hanger will cause a lot of local and international carriers to bring their equipment to the airport for maintenance and repairs. “We are calling on Dr Okonkwo to consider making Anambra Airport the headquarters of his United Nigeria Airlines operations,” the commissioner pleaded.