David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka
Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano and a Christian leader, Rev Uma Ukpai, among others paid last respect to the Bishop of Rhema Deliverance Ministry Worldwide, Bishop Arthur Nwachukwu during his interment in Umunya, Oyi Local Government Area, Anambra State. While Obiano, who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Nkem Okeke praised Nwachukwu for his dedication to the work of God, Ukpai, who preached at the interment, called on Nigerians to emulate Nwachukwu’s life. In a condolence message to the family, Obiano said: “We all mourn his demise, but let us thank God for the worthy life he lived while in our midst. “His death is an irreparable loss. I have no doubt that Papa has embarked on such a glorious passage, given that he lived a life of service to God and humanity. Bishops of various denominations attended the burial, which was conducted under the theme, “The Last Crusade.” Some of them include Bishop Ayo Oritsejafor, Bishop Mike Okonkwo, Bishop O.C Dominic, Bishop Isaac Idahosa, Bishop Osa Oni and others from across the world. Sons of the renowned preacher, Dr Amaechi Nwachukwu and Mr. Ejike Nwachukwu, who spoke with THISDAY after the interment, said the burial was actually planned to be the last crusade of their father. They both said the bishop spent his entire life winning souls for Christ, and that nothing would excite him more than holding a crusade that could draw souls to Christ. Ejike said: “The event of the burial of my father would be useless if we do not use it as an avenue to win souls for Christ. We know that, that is what would interest our father, instead of just planning a burial for people to come and eat and drink.” Late Bishop Nwachukwu was a renowned preacher of the gospel and founder of Rhema Deliverance Ministry. He left five sons, who are also preachers of the gospel in various branches of Rhema Deliverance Mission. He died on December 28, 2020 at the age of 78, just days to his 79th birthday. THISDAY learnt that he died after summoning his sons to a prayer session, where he also anointed them. Meanwhile, his first son, Dr. Chidozie Nwachukwu will on Sunday be ordained as the bishop of the church, to take over from his late dad.