By Sylvester Idowu The Vice Chancellor Delta State University, Prof Andy Ogochukwu Egwuyenga has assured of the institution’s commitment to research of Neglected Tropical Disease (NTDs). Prof Egwuyenga stated this when he received members of Parasitology and Public Health Society of Nigeria (PPSN) and Delta State Primary Health Care Development Agency (DSPHCDA) in his office on courtesy visit as part of activities marking this year’s world NTDs day. The university head said “as an institution we value research, most of our lecturers and student have been engaging in research which have gained international recognition”. He further stated that the university takes NTDs seriously and gives priority attention to it as the diseases are of high socio-economic impact. “The university is a fertile ground for NTDs studies and in the forefront to see that the disease burden is brought down to the barest minimum through research.” He further pledged to organise a more formidable Parasitology and Public Health Society of Nigeria (PPSN) in Abraka as his membership with PPSN is about 32 years, adding that the university has eminent Parasitologist, who work on various research areas. The Vice Chancellor said he looks forward to real enthusiasm to engage in ground breaking research that will be of benefit to the society as being practiced by advanced societies where funds are devoted to research. In his remarks, the Director of Advanced Research Centre, Prof Patrick Nmorsi welcomed the idea of collaboration with the Primary Health Development Agency, hoping that the research collaboration will be sustained to cover other diseases of public importance. He said they have an available and formidable team, ready to work adding that NTDs (mostly Soil Transmitted Helminths (STH) and trypanosomiasis (Sleeping Sickness) abound in Abraka, affecting the communities causing economic burden, stunted growth and poor performance in school children. Chairman DSPHCDA, Dr. Mrs Isioma Okobah represented by Dr. Paul Yinkore, Director Community Health Service said the visit was to seek for collaborative efforts with Delta State University towards eliminating Neglected Tropical Diseases. “One of the agency’s mandate is to promote research with academic institutions. We look forward to collaborating with Delta State University on researches geared towards control and prevention of diseases especially the NTDs. “We know the place of academia’s, their worth, they should be on the driver seat for any successful research.” Dr. Yinkore further emphasised that the NTDs programme and Mass Drug Administration (MDA) for NTDs is domiciled in DSPHCDA, adding that “so we cannot do without each other”.