South-East govs wade into feud By Amby Uneze The Imo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday accused the governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma, and a former governor of the State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, of turning the state into a war zone. This is coming as the South-East Governors Forum has waded into the impasse between Uzodimma, and Okorocha. The PDP spokesperson in the state, Mr. Ogubundu Nwadike, in a statement issued yesterday said that the clash between the supporters of Okorocha and Uzodinma on Sunday at Royal Spring Estate, Owerri, was “disgusting”. The statement alleged that the actions of Uzodimma and Okorocha were causing tension and apprehension in the state. The statement read, “The Peoples Democratic Party in Imo State, strongly condemns the horrific violent and bloody gun battle which recently occurred in the state between supporters of Senator Rochas Okorocha and supporters Governor Hope Uzodimma, where they were engaged in a bizarre indiscriminate shooting over the sealing by the Government, of Royal Spring Palm Estate Hotel, in the Akachi area of Owerri, the state capital. “It is highly disgusting that the present APC Government in the state has turned Imo into a terror zone and theatre of war and conflict. In recent times, Imolites have had the most tragic and excruciating experience ranging from the recent military invasion of parts of Orlu and Orsu Local Government Areas, which caused insecurity and other forms of gruesome attacks, leading to the breakdown of peace and order, and loss of lives and properties”. The main opposition party added that the recent violence perpetrated by supporters of Okorocha and Uzodimma has stirred up tension and apprehension in the state thereby toppling the atmosphere of saturated peace and tranquility. Meanwhile, the South-East Governors Forum has waded into the impasse between Uzodimma, and Okorocha. Chairman of the forum, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr. Francis Nwaze, yesterday said the forum was already handling the issue. Umahi said that contacts have already been made to resolve the impasse and assured that both parties have agreed to a truce. “South-East leaders are capable of settling their disputes internally instead of washing their linen in public. “We sue for calm among the supporters of both leaders to ensure a timely and amicable resolution of the disagreement,” the statement said.