Francis Anatogu, in Abuja. Ogah, in a statement noted that Nigeria has over 44 minerals in commercial value which could lead to the industrialisation of Africa, stating: “globally, Nigeria is blessed in terms of minerals.” He said the ministry was working at ensuring that no mineral would be taken out of the country without proper beneficiation in order to improve and increase the economic value of the minerals to meet international standard for the benefit of the miners.
He disclosed that the ministry was determined to use the sector as a tool for job and wealth creation, in line with the present administration’s agenda, and provide opportunities for Africans. Ogah, further revealed that the ministry was also looking at creating a project, “Mines to Power,” which would be aimed at providing sustainable power to drive mining activities at the sites, adding that access to energy, especially electricity is a driving force for economic development. While commending the Committee for the efforts they have put in so far, the Minister enjoined them to ensure that he is briefed regularly on their activities.
Earlier, Anatogu urged African nations to leverage on the benefits of AfCFTA to increase the economic growth in Africa. He stated that AfCFTA aligns with the vision of the Ministry’s Mining Road Map, noting that mining employs people with zero education to those with PhD.
According to him, the sector has the capacity to solve the unemployment problem in many African countries. Also speaking, the Acting Director, Investment Promotion and Mineral Trade (IPMT), of the Ministry, Yunusa Mohammed, who reiterated that mining could develop employment nationwide, disclosed that the Committee is working on carrying out sensitisation exercise for stakeholders to understand the workings and actualise the dream of AfCFTA.
He advocated that the Miners Association of Nigeria should drive the project as they will benefit immensely as end users. Also, the President of Miners Association of Nigeria, Alhaji Kabiru Mohammed Kankara , who was represented by the Technical Adviser of the Association, and Co- Chairman, AfCFTA, Mining, Engr Auwal Ibrahim Bununu, stated that Nigerians as competitive people, have a role to play and benefit in the African mining market that the continental deal presents.