Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti As the gale of students’ abduction by gunmen spread across the Northern part of the country, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), NANS/JCC, Ekiti chapter, has revealed its readiness to partner security agencies in Ekiti State to ensure safety of students in all the campuses in the state. The new Chairman of NANS in the axis, Com. Felix Olanrewaju, said he had met with the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Babatunde Mobayo and other security outfits like Department of State Services (DSS) and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) on the need to ensure safety of students. He also promised that no students would be allowed to be tormented , harassed sexually, intimidated and rusticated unjustly under his leadership, in any of the campuses in Ekiti. Olanrewaju, at the maiden press conference after his emergence as NANS’ leader in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, lamented the rate of Kidnappings and killings across campuses, saying security must be on alert to avert such nefarious crime in Ekiti. “We expect the state and federal governments to focus more attention on this insecurity like they are doing for COVID-19, because insecurity is tormenting our country more than COVID-19 pandemic.” Olanrewaju said his leadership would tackle cases of sexual harassments, arbitrary suspension and rustication of students that were now rampant on Ekiti campuses. “We have observed that it is now rampant on our campuses to have students suspended or rusticated using draconian and anti-retrogressive rules of the school Management. We have had cases of unjust expulsion because they stood their grounds. We won’t support any management that is not ready to protect the rights of our members. “Every injustice, whether politically motivated or academically orchestrated, sexually induced or whichever form it appears wouldn’t be tolerated.” Olanrewaju added that his mission as NANS’ Leader, was to defend students’ democratic rights, encourage entrepreneurship, promote accountability and students’ welfare through his well-articulated ‘SAVERS Agenda’, upon which he was elected.