The ruling APC has started fresh membership registration and revalidation exercise with the President, Muhammadu Buhari, travelling to his home town Daura in accompany with 10 governors and top party men including the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan to revalidate his registration. The ruling APC like any other political parties is allowed based on its constitution to register new members and revalidate the existing ones. However, the exercise has received knocks from Nigerians and other political parties who viewed and described it as waste of resources. The exercise has come at a wrong time when Nigerians are grappling with worsening insecurity and economic hardship. Besides, President Buhari has recently signed a law against the violators of Covid-19 protocols which attracts six months in prison. While the president signed the law that would punish the violators of Covid-19 protocols, it seems the new APC members and existing ones who will go for the exercise are exempted from the law. You can imagine how the registration centres will become a beehive of activities and possibly spike the new cases of Covid-19 in the country. The APC should have used this period for introspection and self-appraisal to find out the areas it performed below expectations. The discordant voices emanating from Nigerians craving for social, economic and political reforms are becoming louder by the day. Despite the changed of service chiefs by Mr President which was long overdue, the country is still experiencing Boko Haram and bandits’ attacks. Is the ruling party more concerned about boosting membership and how to win the next general election than protecting the lives of Nigerians? With the advent of technology, many Nigerians thought the APC will harp on new devices for its membership registration. Sadly, it has never. Let truth be told, the timing of the exercise is not convenient. The registration comes at a time when the failures of the ruling party are emerging every passing day. Instead of the wasteful and frivolous spending in the name of party registration, the APC should fullfil its campaign promises to Nigerians. The party promised security, fighting corruption and fixing the economy. Are these promises fulfilled? I think not. Lawal Adamu Usman, Kaduna State