By Michael Olugbode The Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, has confirmed that about 60 persons were affected by the rocket attack on Tuesday evening on Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. The governor said 10 persons were killed in the attack by suspected Boko Haram terrorists on the troubled town. A press statement by the spokesman to the governor, Mallam Isa Gusau, said the governor visited two hospitals on Wednesday to sympathize with those injured in the attack. He said after the Boko Haram insurgents fired shots from rocket propelled grenades (RPG) on parts of the town, 10 persons were killed and 47 others were injured. He disclosed that the shots, on Tuesday night, came from Kaleri, in the outskirts of Maiduguri, with grenades hitting Gwange and Adam Kolo communities, both densely populated areas in the inner city. He said most of the deaths occurred in Gwange, adding that one of the RPG shots hit a children’s playground in Gwange. Gusau, in the statement, said: “Governor Zulum confirmed the attacks during his empathy visits to the State Specialist Hospital, and the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, both in Maiduguri. The governor was told that some of the victims had sustained various degrees of injuries and were being treated, for which he directed that the state ministry of health shoulders the bills. “Indeed it is a very sad moment for the people and government of Borno State, about 60 persons were affected, among them, 10 have died. It was as a result of long distance shots fired by the insurgents. I believe this is a new trend we have to rise up and stop. We experienced a similar incident exactly one year ago. The solution is to deploy an appropriate form of technology, which we will have to work on. I share the pains of all those affected but we are not just visiting hospitals, we do so much behind the scene in our combined responses to the Boko Haram insurgency and we will keep making these and more efforts.” The governor also spoke on the military regaining Marte from the hold of the insurgents. He said he was not just pleased but also optimistic that the Nigerian military will work hard to retain, continue its peace-building and stability efforts in ways that should ensure the insurgents do not take Marte again or any other part of the state. He said: “I am optimistic that the insurgents will not take over Marte again.”