By Chuks Okocha Ahead of its proposed conference on security, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the United States and other members of the international community to prevail on President Muhammadu Buhari to take decisive steps to protect Nigerians and curb escalating violence, terrorism and banditry ravaging the country under his watch. The party also tasked President Buhari to respond to widespread cry for credible elections in the country by making personal commitment towards accelerated amendment to the Electoral Act, to among other things, give statutory force to simultaneous electronic transmission of results and use of card readers in elections. In a statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, presented the position of the party at a crucial meeting with the Political Officer of the United States Embassy in Nigeria, Mr. Jerry Howard, at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja yesterday Secondus lamented the ‘horrible’ level of insecurity in the country; increased terrorism, wanton killings and kidnapping in the country “with the Buhari administration failing to demonstrate the capacity to protect the citizens.” The national chairman disclosed that that is the reason the PDP, as a party that has the interest of Nigeria at heart, is putting together a non-partisan national conference on security. According to Secondus, “Everyday, our country is confronted with reports of gruesome killings, kidnapping and unrestrained destruction across our country. As a party and patriotic citizens, we can no longer continue to watch. That is why we are putting together a non-partisan conference on security.” The PDP chairman also expressed anxiety over an impending food crisis in the country if the security situation, which has crippled agricultural and economic activities in Nigeria, is not addressed. On electoral reforms, the PDP leader expressed worry that Nigerians have lost interest in the electoral system due to the manipulations being witnessed under the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration, and urged President Buhari to leave a legacy of credible elections by ensuring accelerated amendment to the Electoral Act. Secondus insisted that such amendment must ensure a “legal backing for use of card readers for elections as well as electronic transmission of results as witnessed in the 2020 Edo State governorship election.” Stating further that the PDP is the only hope to restore peace, national cohesiveness in the country and save Nigeria from imminent collapse, the national chairman of the party stressed that the party would remain steadfast in its ideals, adding that the PDP will never change its name or any of its identity. Earlier in the meeting, Howard had assured the party of the continued support of the United States towards the deepening of democratic practice in Nigeria.