Njalo.ng, a classified adverts site in Nigeria has recorded growth on its first anniversary despite the coronavirus outbreak that ravaged different sectors of the economy in the past year. The classified site launched operations in January 2020 and has maintained its promise to serve as a free classifieds platform that emphasises safety and convenience to online sellers and buyers. Commenting on Njalo.ng’s first anniversary, the Co-founder/Chief Technology Officer, Mr. Chukwuemeka Orjiani, said they have made remarkable progress despite rolling out at the twilight of COVID-19 that led to topsy turvy economic year 2020. He said while firms and businesses were sent to survival mode and many who couldn’t cope were forced out of business, however, the year also turned out to be the one where the importance of technology to the human race became more evident. “In the heat of lockdown and social distancing measures that limited human physical contact and activities, technology based services like Njalo.ng served as the bridge between the virtual and human divide. We have not reached out target, but we foresee massive opportunities to create jobs and empower millions of Nigerians,” Orjiani said. Also speaking, the Co-founder/Chief Operating Officer, Njalo.ng, Sandra Ani, said :That COVID-19 proved that ecommerce and its chain of services were crucial in the digital economy. She said at the time when guidelines were strict, consumers stayed home and did their shopping online, logistics services of ecommerce platforms partnered with governments, especially in Africa, in the movement and distribution of drugs and other medical equipment during the lockdown. “This deserves commendations”, she said. To this end, Ani said Njalo remained a platform that has come to help businesses connect the dots seamlessly.
“With an effective visibility on brands/businesses, there has been an increase in sales and return on investment, (ROI). We are looking at introducing a premium package soon which will give businesses even more visibility and buyers will benefit more from it. “Through this platform, a lot of businesses have made massive financial achievements. Cashing out always. It’s a digital age and time, and with a good mobile phone, Njalo will showcase businesses beyond the cubicle, reaching out to a wider audience,” Ani further said. She explained that with robust customer service Njalo.ng would continue to work hard in ensuring that both sellers and buyers were promptly attended to and their needs met.