By Sylvester Idowu The management of Petroleum Training Institute (PTI), Effurun, Delta State has put together a two-day retreat as part of efforts to reposition the school for the daunting global economic challenges as well as meet up with its statutory role. The retreat, put together by the Principal of PTI, Dr. Henry A. Adimula, involved proactive agenda of creativity, innovativeness and re-ordering of priori¬ties were identified for the institute’s sustainability in the years ahead. Speaking to THISDAY on the sidelines of the two-day retreat, Adimula said participants, including managers, directors, heads of depart-ments, management staff, unions and others who are critical stakeholders to the achievements of the goals and objectives of the insti¬tute were brought together to brainstorm on the way forward with a view to put¬ting all hands on deck to turn around the fortunes of the school and move it to greater heights. He disclosed that issues and challenges such as poor funding, bureaucra¬cy among others that were identified would be tackled proactively, adding that all viable equipment would be identified and put to opti¬mum use through private pub¬lic partnership business to boost the institute’s inter¬nally generated revenue. According to Adimula, “our goal is to make PTI the best delivering on its statutory roles and increase our Internally Generated Revenue. What we are do¬ing now is to set the tone and agenda for the year and pursue it with vigour to deliver worthwhile services to the petroleum industry.” The Principal/ Chief Executive, further disclosed that the way for¬ward was for the institute to be more creative, improve on its revenue profile, look inward, commitment to set goals and ensure that all viable facilities are tak-en advantage of to become revenue yielding. “We shall be more creative in the deliv¬ering of our services to our clients, services that are customised to make our clients to yearn for more, services they cannot get anywhere. “We shall also improve on our drive for more clients. In doing this, we shall follow all the ex-tant rules of government, carry out regular trainings, and ensure equipment are maintained for optimal use,” he said.