In order to honour its commitment to the health and safety of its employees and customers, Emirates said it has become the first airlines in the world to operate a flight with fully vaccinated frontline team servicing customers at every touch point of the travel journey. Also supporting the flight’s operations were fully vaccinated aircraft appearance, loading and special handling teams from dnata, as well as SkyCargo teams working on the cargo and logistics requirements for EK215. The Emirates Group said it rolled out its vaccination drive just over a month ago, and since then, close to 26,000, or 44 per cent, of the Group’s UAE frontline aviation workforce have received both doses of either the Pfizer-BioNTech or Sinopharm vaccines. Chief Operating Officer, Emirates Airline, Adel Al Redha explained in a statement: “Our operational workforce are at the aviation frontline, helping people get to where they need to be, and moving essential goods to global communities. “Protecting our people with vaccinations is important – for them, for our community, for the smooth running of our operations, and also for our customers as it introduces of an additional layer of protection when they travel with us.
“We’ve seen a very positive response with high demand and take-up of the Covid-19 vaccine from our colleagues at the operational frontline, and there’s continued momentum in the rate of vaccinations across the business. “We would like to thank the UAE’s leadership for making three types of vaccines available in the country, and for their proactive commitment to championing an extensive National Vaccination Programme.”
Emirates said nearly 5,000 Cabin and Flight Deck Crew have opted to receive both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. In addition, thousands more Emirates Group employees in other roles have taken their COVID-19 vaccine through the company’s clinics and vaccination centres, while others have opted to take their vaccine at one of the many vaccination centres across the UAE.
Al Redha added: “At the outset of the pandemic, Emirates implemented robust safety measures to protect and prioritise the safety of our customers and employees at all stages of the travel journey, and with the rapid progress of our own vaccination programme and high rates of take-up, more of our flights will soon be operating with fully vaccinated frontline employees. “We are also confident that with more people being vaccinated, combined with strong safety measures in place, we can all look forward to the easing of border entry guidelines for many countries.” Qatar Partners UEFA
Qatar Airways has announced that it would join The Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) as partner of the UEFA EURO 2020, with the national carrier of the State of Qatar set to be the official airline of the tournament taking place from June 11th to July 11th, 2021.
The 16th edition of the flagship UEFA Championship will see the 24-team tournament celebrated across 12 host cities including Amsterdam, Baku, Bilbao, Bucharest, Budapest, Copenhagen, Dublin, Glasgow, London, Munich, Rome and St. Petersburg. Wembley Stadium will be set to host the final in London on July 11th, 2021.
Additionally, the Qatar Airways brand will feature prominently across all digital platforms and stadiums set to host the 51 matches during the course of the summer tournament.
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive, Mr. Akbar Al Baker said: “Qatar Airways is pleased to partner with UEFA to connect players, fans and officials across the globe through our world-class service. The power of sport to unite people is unrivalled, and this partnership with UEFA EURO 2020™ is an excellent opportunity for us to witness the very best in European football. Furthermore, this alliance illustrates our commitment to Europe, and accentuates our growing sporting partnership portfolio.” UEFA Director of Marketing, Guy-Laurent Epstein, added: “We are delighted to welcome Qatar Airways on board as an Official Partner of UEFA EURO 2020™. Like sport, travel unites us. Now more than ever, next summer represents the ideal opportunity for us to celebrate the excitement that the competition will bring.”