By Bennett Oghifo Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, has been chosen to construct the new headquarters building of the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). Located at the strategic Central Business District of the Federal Capital Territory Abuja, the iconic 10-storey building design also called “The Barrel”, is a challenging foretaste in magnitude and technical standard. But Julius Berger says it is a welcome challenge. Speaking at the event in Abuja, the Managing Director of Julius Berger, Engr. Dr. Lars richter, a well-recognised consummate engineering practitioner who, amongst other professional qualifications, holds a doctorate degree in civil engineering, said: “The building itself reflects an outstanding barrel design, drawing inspiration from the physical oil barrel itself. It is a modern office building, thoughtfully designed to include and balance the requirements of today’s contemporary work environments”. The building, he further said “features a mix of open floor workspaces, individual private offices, conference rooms and an auditorium… along with additional amenities and social facilities, such as a clinic, restaurant, gym and library”, adding that “sufficient space has been allocated for parking to ensure efficiency in every detail.” Speaking to the scope of the project, the Julius Berger boss described the building footprint as spanning 4,150 sqm with the main building itself occupying a total Ground floor area of approximately 48,400 sqm. The project, Richter said, also consists of a basement, ground floor, levels 1-10 and a penthouse He added that the DPR head office building will stand approximately 60 meters tall to beautifully accentuate the growing architectural landscape and brilliant skyline of the Abuja Central Business District. Richter confidently promised that:“…the finishing’s of the building will meet the highest quality standards, and include state-of-the art technical fixtures, which further reinforce the building’s stand-out design.” Richter, who has to his professional credit an inspiring industry reputation for beating project delivery deadlines, gave a reassuring insight into Julius Berger’s technical, operational and administrative strategies which are all targeted towards timely and successful delivery of “The Barrel” project. According to Richter: “…to successfully construct this building, Julius Berger will implement a concrete frame with flat slabs and steel construction for the building shell structure. To meet the required, highly challenging timeframe for construction, the company will partly employ 24-hour shifts and integrates an equipment plan that makes use of six tower cranes working together to accelerate construction…. There is no doubt that a building of this magnitude and standard, to be delivered in such a short timeframe, is a challenge, but for Julius Berger, this is a welcome challenge. Julius Berger has been constructing major projects across Nigeria since 1965. The company has a proven and proud track record of successfully completing work, on time, no matter the challenge. According to Dr. Richter, Julius Berger “…continues to set standards for technological leadership in the construction sector and seek to pioneer state-of-the-art construction methods and technologies to ensure that value-driven innovations are prioritized for the benefit of our clients… and our quality of works continues to stand the test of time”. Richter assured that: “the Department of Petroleum Resources Abuja Headquarters will be completed on time and to the full satisfaction of our client….I am confident, and without doubt, that with the strong commitment of our client and the project consultants, Julius Berger will unfailingly deliver on the project requirements, on time. Also speaking at the ceremony, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipreye Silva said, the DPR headquarters building would be completed during the life of the present President Buhari administration. In the words of the Minister: “This project is expected to last for 24 months, which is two years and we hope that it will be inaugurated during the lifetime of this administration. We started it and we hope to finish it before we leave. Julius Berger has given us that commitment and we are standing on that commitment.” The Director and Chief Executive Officer of the DPR, Engr. Sarki Auwalu, said the building would support DPR’s commitment to enabling businesses and creating opportunities for the industry to thrive, using the agency’s regulatory framework and service instrument. He said it was better to have the headquarters of DPR situated in Abuja where most regulatory institutions operate from. According to Engr. Sarki, the new DPR building in Abuja would strategically enhance inter agency collaborations as well as more centrally assist operators in the oil and gas sector. Dr. Richter on behalf of the entire management and Board of Directors of Julius Berger expressed appreciation to the DPR “for choosing Julius Berger as the construction partner for this outstanding building project”, adding that he “looks forward to coming together again with the DPR for a topping-off ceremony, a traditional landmark celebration of the completion of a building’s structure in anticipation of completion and commissioning of the Department of Petroleum Resources Abuja Headquarters”. Other members of the Julius Berger team who accompanied the Managing Director to the event included Regional Managers Ralf Brendicke and Oliver Berger, Commercial Manager Schulze Auf’m Hofe, Project Coordinators Olu Mustapha and Dr Ismaila Amodu Mohammed, Head of Media Relations Office, Prince Moses Duku; and Head of Corporate Communications, James Agama. Mr Saheed Musa Tali represented the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources at the event.