Chuks Okocha in Abuja As the All Progressives Congress (APC) commences its membership revalidation nationwide, the Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu, has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for “promoting the doctrine of internal democracy in the ruling party.” In a statement issued yesterday in Abuja, Okechukwu lauded President Buhari for what he described as ‘promoting the doctrine of internal democracy during the flag-off of APC membership revalidation in Daura, Katsina State, last Saturday. The VON boss praised the president for upholding the internal democracy and hence, bidding goodbye to imposition of candidates in APC. According to Okechukwu, “We salute President Buhari for promoting the doctrine of internal democracy, hence bidding goodbye to imposition of candidates in the APC in primary elections. “I am glad that the president gave life oxygen to Section 7(viii) of the APC constitution, which states inter-alia: ‘To promote and uphold the practice of internal democracy at all levels of the party’s organisation’. “Taking cognizance of upholding this core tenet of democracy and repositioning our great party, the president proclaimed that: ‘No more crowning from Abuja downward. Let the people know this and appreciate it that they are in charge of their constituencies and that they are in charge of the party. Without any incentive, they must come out and defend the party at any level so that we, you and the party will feel secure and comfortable because the old-time of putting hands in the pocket is over as money is no longer available’.” Okechukwu further posited that Buhari, as the foremost leader of the party, has undoubtedly raised the red flag to the “ubiquitous ‘food is ready’ politicians who hang around the corridors of power in Abuja, and surreptitiously reap offices meant for hardworking apparatchik of the party. “In fact to avoid the huge loss inflicted on our great party by the crass imposition of candidates in the 2018 primary elections by Adams Oshiomhole and his cohorts, we must avoid the red flag of undue endorsement of candidates. “For the avoidance of doubt, if not for crass imposition of candidates in our party in 2018, the stocks of our sister political party, the PDP, could have crashed badly. Imposition in APC elevated the fortunes of a dying PDP, that today, they can afford to bandy fake news, make noise, fail to pay the bailout funds and subvert eloquent policies of the president like the Social Investment Programmes and Executive Order 10.”