Inter Milan will today host Turin giants, Juventus in the first leg of the semifinal of the Coppa Italia at the San Siro Stadium. Juventus will be without Paulo Dybala while Inter will be missing the services of both Romero Lukaku and Lautaro Martinez. The match will air live in HD on StarTimes’ World Football channel at 8:45 pm. Both clubs have emerged victorious against the other at the semi-final stage twice in the past, with Inter winning the last two encounters (in 2003/4 and 2015/16) on penalties – even overcoming a 3-0 defeat from the first leg in 2016. Juventus are the record-holders in the competition, having won 13 times, while Inter have held the trophy aloft seven times. Pirlo can also count on striker Cristiano Ronaldo, who already has cup winners’ medals from England and Spain hanging in his trophy cabinet and is now looking towards adding an Italian one to his collection. Napoli, who beat Juventus in last year’s final, are meanwhile hoping to stay on track for a seventh title. They are at home to Atalanta in their first leg match on Wednesday at 8:45 pm In Spain, Copa del Rey quarter-finals will air live on StarTimes’ Sports Life channel from 2 to 4 February. Barcelona are facing Granada in Andalucía on Wednesday at 9 pm. Sevilla and Villarreal are also away against Almeria and Levante on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. The last game will see Spanish Super Cup winners Athletic Bilbao taking on Real Betis. “Subscribers can pay-per-day to enjoy the fixtures. Non-StarTimes subscribers can also stream the matches live on StarTimes-ON mobile app at N400 weekly, with an option to subscribe with MTN airtime. “Active StarTimes subscribers can also stream the matches live on their mobile phones via the StarTimes-ON streaming app at no extra cost by linking their smartcard numbers to StarTimes-ON apps on up-to three mobile devices. Thus, access can be shared with loved ones to watch their favourite content simultaneously. “This handy application provides users with over 100 TV channels which include live sports, replays and highlights,” Lazarus Ibeabuchi, PR Manager, StarTimes Nigeria said.