Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The imminent defection of the former Minister of Aviation and a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, may have hit the rocks following the decision of party members not to accept him into the party. The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) Director General, Dr. Salihu Lukman, in a statement issued yesterday said party members have engaged the leaders of the party and insisted that the former minister is not welcome in the ruling party. He said the fact that APC was being successful was what was attracting almost everyone desirous of accessing political opportunities to join the party. The Director General noted that for APC as a party to be debating the issue of who should join the party or not represented the qualitative difference between the APC and PDP. He stressed that if it were PDP, once the National Chairman of the party acts on a matter and backed by a serving governor, members could only grumble. Lukman stated: “I am proud to have my voice guaranteed and affirmed by my leaders in APC. As an employee of Governors, it has been a privileged opportunity to speak out openly on matters within the purview of leadership initiative. “Rather than my leaders, including our Governors, relating to me as a subordinate who should only take instructions, they recognise and respect my views as a loyal member of the party. Part of the responsibility that imposes is that we should be able to speak out to protect and defend our leaders and our party. “There will be many instances of possibility that our leaders and our party may make wrong decisions. Our capacity to correct those wrong decisions is what our politics require and not some fantasies. “The issue of Mr. Fani-Kayode’s drifted attempt to join the APC is a clear instance of attempts to manipulate some of our leaders into accepting membership of someone who ought not to have been considered as a member of our party. If that was the case in the past, it is better late than never to correct such a mistake. “As party members, we were able to rise up to the challenge of engaging our leaders. Fortunately, we are able to gain the respect of our leaders and surely, moving forward, issues of who qualifies to be a member of our party will be clarified unambiguously.” The party chieftain noted that this could challenge the PDP and other parties in Nigeria to begin to address issues related to their failings.