By Ibrahim Shuaibu In his continued efforts to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and fight its existence in Kano State, the state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has inaugurated COVID-19 Marshals. The marshals, numbering 2,000, which comprise 1,000 Hisbah officials and 1,000 health workers, have been engaged to assist security agents in the state in the enforcement and persuasion of strict compliance to COVID-19 protocols. Speaking during the formal launch of the marshals, which was held at the Government House yesterday, Ganduje said COVID-19 is back, therefore the state government is also back to fight it to the end. According to the governor, the people are dying as a result of the pandemic, and the state government must be up and doing to ensure that it contains the situation, saying: “That is why we have revived out three doctrines, namely: protective, curative and palliative measures to stamp out the pandemic in our state.” Ganduje added that his administration had put in robust plans to combat the pandemic in the state, such as setting up isolation centres, testing laboratories, sample collection centres among others. “Looking at the effect of lockdown on the people, which affected their economic well-being, we feel that there is no need to lock this state down anymore. But we are doing a lot to ensure that we protect our people. “Our task force committee on COVID-19 is doing well in fighting the pandemic. The committee will also continue to make efforts and convince the people to follow protocols in a bid to rid the state of the pandemic. “We have also engaged all critical stakeholders, such as security agencies, traditional rulers, Ulamas, media, medical practitioners, among others, and that is why we have inaugurated these marshals to support us in enlightening and enforcing the people to obey the COVID-19 protocols,” Ganduje said. The governor also hailed the marshals as professional health institutions graduates, who, according to him, would use their education in practice while discharging their duties. In his remarks, the state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa, described the marshals as agile and young, who are up to the task to discharge their duties diligently.