By Daji Sani The Adamawa State Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Aliyu Adamu, yesterday ordered policemen in the state to ensure the full enforcement of the ban on the movement of tricycles and motorcycles in Yola, the state capital, and its environs. The CP order was sequel to the state Governor Ahmadu Fintiri’s executive order banning the use of tricycles and motorcycles in three local government area of Girei, Yola North and Yola South within the hours of 10 p.m. to 5 am. The governor in a statement issued last Tuesday which was signed by his Press Secretary, Mr. Humwashi Wonosikou, said the order would last until further notice. Fintiri said the activities of hoodlums, who are disturbing the peace of the state, necessitated the ban. While describing the activities of the miscreants as unacceptable, Fintiri said: “They have become an extraordinary threat to the peace, wellbeing, security and stability of the state political and economic systems, as well as a negative effect on the continuous development, and must therefore be effectively curtailed.” The governor said no responsible government would allow criminals to hijack the peace of the state, “but must ensure that all residents of Girei, Yola North and Yola South LGAs live free from thuggery, robbery, theft, maiming and other criminal activities. The executive order prescribes six months imprisonment with an option of N100, 000 or both, in addition to forfeiting the tricycle or motorcycle to the state government if found guilty for violating the order. “The order also states that any person found on a tricycle or motorcycle stationary or in motion within the prohibited time whether as a rider or passenger shall be liable to prosecution too. According to the statement, “The order, which is cited as ‘Adamawa State Restriction of Movement of Tricycles/Motorcycles Executive Order No.1 of 2021’, comes into effect on February 2, 2021. It was signed into law by the state Governor, Alhamdu Umaru Fintiri, on February 2, 2021.” It also stated that the police officers in charge are to ensure the full compliance with the regulations in their respective Areas of Responsibilities (AoR).