Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has assured the new Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 13, Dunukofia, Anambra State, AIG Mohammed Hafiz, of his administration’s continued support to enable the zone perform more effectively. Speaking when he received in audience the new AIG, at the Government House, Enugu, Gov. Ugwuanyi stressed that his administration remains committed to security issues and will give the Zone 13 Police boss the needed support to succeed in office. The governor, who formally welcomed the AIG and his entourage, added that it is the utmost desire of his administration to maintain Enugu State’s rating in the nation’s security chart as one of the most peaceful and safest states in the country. Earlier in his speech, AIG Hafiz expressed gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi and his Anambra State counterpart, Chief Willie Obiano, for their commitment and support, stating that “the zone is the most blessed because of you (Ugwuanyi) and your Anambra State colleague”. He explained that the Zone 13 was newly established in July last year to take charge of the administrative and operational control of Enugu State and Anambra State Commands of the Nigeria Police Force. The Police boss added that he was appointed the second AIG in charge of Zone 13 following the recent elevation of the pioneer AIG, Danmallam Mohammed, to the rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG). The new AIG who endorsed the unique practice of Community Policing model in Enugu State in particular and Nigeria in general, commended Gov. Ugwuanyi’s support to the new initiative of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu Abubakar, aimed at deepening community approach as well as confidence, trust and mutual respect between the Police and the people, in the management of crimes and criminalities. Recently, Gov. Ugwuanyi inaugurated the 272 Special Constables from the 17 local government areas, recently recruited and trained at Oji River Police College, for Community Policing in the state. While thanking the governor for his hospitality and commitment, AIG Hafiz assured him that the young zone and the two Commands under its jurisdiction will continue to work in synergy with the governments of Enugu and Anambra states for effective operationalisation of the Community Policing, to ensure minimal crimes in the area. In the AIG’s entourage were the Commissioner of Police, Enugu State Command, CP Mohammed Ndatsu Aliyu, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Admin.), Zone 13, DCP Olim Eyim Betty, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Zonal Criminal Investigation Department (CID), the DC Operations, Enugu Command, DCP Ahmed Garba and Assist Commissioner of Police (ACP), CID, Enugu Command, ACP Fidelis Ogarabe, among others.