A total of 2.5 kilometre internal roads rehabilitated at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH) by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, have been handed over by the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola.
Fashola, who was represented at the handing over ceremony by the Federal Controller of Works, Borno State, Mr. Amos Tongman, explained that the intervention by the government in the development of infrastructure in the tertiary institutions was to boost quality of education “It is undebatable that the quality of education will be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and the learning environment and those who doubt it should simply listen to some of the feedbacks from the students of the schools where this type of intervention has taken place,” he said. He said the 2.5 kilometers road network was a laudable project as it would ease movement of both students and staff of the institute within the campus.
Speaking at the event, the Chief Medical Director of the institution, Prof. Ahmed Ahidjo, commended President Muhammadu Buhari, and the ministry for selecting the institute as a beneficiary of the intervention programme. “We are fortunate to be able to witness this handing over occasion of roads rehabilitated by the ministry. We thank you for your tremendous support in bringing out our landmark project which is being commissioned today,” he said.
The four rehabilitated roads were renamed: Former Ring Road now Babatunde Raji Fashola Road, former Kidney Centre to Engineering Road now Mohammed Bukar Road, former Engineering Junction to Polio Laboratory Road now Professor Jibrin Aminu Road and lastly, School of Nursing Road to Babangida Hussaini Road. Ahidjo said the roads were renamed in recognition of the contributions such persons made to the success story the school was celebrating. On the impact of the road, the President of the Students Union Government (SUG) of the institute, Hakuri Tamus, said the students were happy that the roads had been fixed.