Nosa Alekhuogie In a bid to bridge the existing gaps between service providers and consumers, Offerservice has launched an application that creates a user-friendly online community where various actors can easily leverage its unique capabilities. The company, a United States and Nigerian registered online catalogue/e-commerce and social media organisation, launched the app in Lagos, recently. According to the company, the app has a geo-location attribute that helps to connect users to their target market at federal, state or global level, as registered users can showcase their services, list their merchandise, and personalise their page free of charge. Speaking at the launch, the Managing Director, Offerservice, Mr. Tony Emmanuel, explained that the platform was created for a symbiotic community market for individuals who are keen to render service and for those who require immediate service without hassles. According to him, “With this platform in full use, it will naturally reduce the level of traffic on the roads of Nigeria and other countries in the world. It will also cut out the middleman approach that tries to rip people off which It also helps in projecting registered users to potential buyers in their state, federal or across the globe.” Emmanuel further said: “This e-commerce site is also aimed at helping people in diaspora make vivid decisions regarding business transactions they want to get involved in whilst indirectly reducing unemployment in every society because it helps people to look inwards and find innate skillsets that has been dormant thereby giving them opportunities to activate and make profit from them.” He explained that months to come, the company would be covering the geopolitical regions in Nigeria with our data collection crusade, which largely helps to beam light on the underprivileged and professionals who are desirous to create awareness for their business. The systems Director, Mr. Jeff who also spoke during the launch however noted that new features will be introduced in phases.
“This is to consolidate on what we already have so they can enhance usability and make our platform more interactive for all our users. The Offerservice platform is supported 24/7 and operates a High Availability(HA) Database. On our platform, registered user’s page can be followed by users, viewed by users, liked by users and they can also send out newsletters notifying their followers of a new service, recent or future events and new arrivals of products they are willing to sell,” Jeff said “We also humbly expect feedbacks from all and sundry so we can create a better platform that will be effective and efficient for all users across the globe. The App can be downloaded at the Google play store and the Apple store,” he said
“We don’t derive commissions from any transaction that takes place on our platform by any registered user and don’t intend to do so in the nearest future. We will persistently advertise their businesses on all the media outlets so they don’t have to worry how people will reach them.They could also report any uncouth attitude that tries to jeopardize their transactions through any of our contact quarters and if the business or individual is found culpable, we reserve the rights to delist them,” Emmanuel said.