By Duro Ikhazuagbe Former Super Eagles defender, Yisa Sofoluwe who died on Tuesday night in Lagos was buried yesterday at the Atan Cemetery in Yaba area of the state. Sofoluwe fondly called ‘Dean of Defence’ in his hey days with the senior national team died of cerebral atrophy at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). Amongst some of the ex internationals that were at Sofoluwe’s graveside yesterday include his Flying Eagles teammate, Waidi Akanni, Jide Oguntuase, Festus Odini, Peter Nieketien and Wasiu Adetoro. Sofoluwe’s wife Busola and her two sons were also on hand to bid farewell to the ex international according to Islamic rites. The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) was not represented at the burial due to mixup in the dates earlier sent out for the burial of the former Abiola Babes FC player. However, in a condolence message sent out earlier, President of the NFF, Amaju Melvin Pinnick expressed utter shock and sorrow at the death of the ex international defender. “It is another sad, sad day. Just a couple of weeks ago, we were lamenting the loss of former goalkeeper and coach Joseph Erico. Now, Yisa Sofoluwe. That man was a gem in the green-and-white and did his very best for Nigeria whenever he was on the field. Personally, I have sweet memories of Yisa Sofoluwe. “It is more painful that he left just when help was coming to him from everywhere and the process was on to rectify his medical condition. We loved him but God loves him more. May his soul rest in peace.” Sofoluwe first wore Nigeria’s colours during the qualifying series for the 1983 FIFA World Youth Championship (now FIFA U20 World Cup) in Mexico. He was a key figure in that squad that became the first Nigeria team to feature at a FIFA-organised championship. The Flying Eagles defeated old Soviet Union, lost to Brazil and drew with The Netherlands, narrowly failing to make the knockout stage. The same year, he won his first senior cap, in a 1984 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match against Morocco in Benin City, which ended scoreless. The return leg in Rabat also ended scoreless, but Nigeria triumphed 4-3 after penalty shootout to qualify for Cote d’Ivoire ’84. Sofoluwe played a notable role in the Green Eagles squad that finished as runner-up in Cote d’Ivoire, winning Nigeria’s first silver medal at the AFCON, and was also a force in the team that repeated the feat in Morocco four years later. He won a total of 40 caps for the Nigeria senior team, scoring one goal – in a 1986 World Cup qualifying match against Kenya in Lagos on April 20, 1985 that Nigeria won 3-1. The hardworking defender played his club football for ITT FC, Abiola Babes FC, Shooting Stars FC and Gateway FC.