By Rebecca Ejifoma The Lagos State Command, Monday, arrested 19 suspected cultists over the bloody clash in Alakuko, Dalemo, and Kola areas of the state. According to the State Police PRO, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi, items recovered from the suspects included dangerous weapons, assorted charms, and weeds suspected to be Indian hemp. Following this, the State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, renewed his vow to suppress any act of lawlessness and hooliganism across the length and breadth of Lagos State. The police boss said this Monday while addressing and deliberating on security issues with Area Commanders and Police Mobile Force Commanders in the state. The meeting centered on the general security and public safety of the state, as the command recorded some acts of lawlessness in some areas of the state. Odumosu, however, warned motorcyclist, commercial drivers, and Lagosians to respect the laws and desist from attacking police personnel and other security operatives who are enforcing the Lagos State Traffic Regulations and COVID-19 safety protocols. He assured the state that the command would continue to discharge its duties without fair or favour. Odumosu, added that the hoodlums came from Otta axis of Ogun State to lay siege on the affected border communities on cult related crises and the command had been repelling them. “The command has deployed additional police personnel, including Police Mobile Force, to curtail the hoodlums; and restore normalcy to the crises affected communities,” he emphasised. He has also directed that the arrested suspects be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba for discreet investigation. Odumosu called on the community leaders in the areas to support the police in combating the crises and getting rid of the bad boys and their antics in their respective areas and in the state at large. The police boss assured that the command was working assiduously with the Ogun State Police Command to combat hoodlums and cultists in the border areas and towns across the state.