Edo State University Uzairue, formerly Edo University Iyamho, has scored another academic milestone with the commencement of admission into its postgraduate programme for the 2020/2021 academic session, after securing the approval of the National Universities Commission (NUC). The commencement of the postgraduate programme is sequel to the graduation of two sets of students and a resource verification visit to the university by the NUC in November 2020.
The management of the institution, in a statement made available to THISDAY, said it secured approval for postgraduate Diplomas, Masters and Doctors of Philosophy in Economics, History and International Studies; and Political Science. Others are; Biochemistry, Computer Science, Microbiology and postgraduate diplomas, Masters in Accounting. “With this, graduate students from around the country are advised to visit its website for more details and procedures to obtain the postgraduate admission form for the commencement of their programmes. The university has well-equipped laboratories/studios, as well as conducive classrooms for teaching and learning, as well as a flexible fee payment structure for students intending to study in the Edo State University, Uzairue Postgraduate School.” The institution owned by the Edo State government, has continued to achieve great heights within its five years of its existence. Being the first university in West Arica to adopt CANVAS as its learning management system and having completed the 2019/2021 academic session using the CANVAS LMS, at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the school has since commenced academic activities for its undergraduate programmes for the 2020/2021 academic session with students resuming physically for their lectures. Admission slots are still available in some departments in the institution and intending students who wrote the last JAMB UTME examination and their parents, are advised to visit the school’s website to complete an admission request form, which will enable them to enjoy an uninterrupted academic sojourn.